|  |

|

**Constituent Assembly Debates (Proceedings) -**** ****VOLUME XI**

* * *

**Tuesday, the 22nd November 1949**

_________

The Constituent Assembly of India met in the Constitution Hall, New Delhi at
Ten of the Clock, Mr. President (The Honourable Dr. Rajendra Prasad) in the
Chair.

_________

**DRAFT CONSTITUTION-(Contd.)**

  **Shri H.V. Kamath **(C.P. &amp; Berar : General) : Mr. President, a few days ago you were good enough to tell the House that the election of Members from Vindhya Pradesh to the Constituent Assembly would take place about the 20th of this month. Will you kindly tell us whether the election has taken place and whether the Members will take their seats here during this session?

**Mr. President : **Well I am expecting them to come; but it is not by way of election. As a informed the House the other day, an attempt has been made to constitute an electoral college but for some reason or other, that has not been found possible. So ultimately I was asked to agree to nomination, and I did. So I am expecting the nominated Members to come.

**Shri Jainarain Vyas **(United State of Rajasthan) : I understand that two Members have already come here.

**Mr. President : **If they have come, they will come here.

**Shri Jainarain Vyas : **But they have not got the credentials from the Rajpramukh and that is why they are waiting.

**Shri H.J. Khandekar **(C.P. &amp; Berar : General) : I read in yesterday's paper that four persons have been nominated by you to this House from the Vindhya Pradesh.

**Mr. President : **No, not by me.

**Shri H.J. Khandekar : **No, I am sorry : By the Rajparamukh. May I know on a point of information whether there is a Harijan among them?

**Mr. President : **Well, the names that we have received are these, and I do not know if any of them is a Harijan or not. The names are :

(1) Captain Awadhesh Pratap Singh,

(2) Shri Shambhunath Shukla,

(3) Pandit ram Sahai Tewari, and

(4) Shri Mannulalji Dwivedi.

No, I do not think there is any Harijan there.

**Shri H.J. Khandekar **: From the surnames also I can made out that there is not Harijan.

**Shri H.V. Kamath : **Is any attempt being made, or will any attempt be made, to get the Hyderabad State into the Constituent Assembly by the next session ?

**Mr. President : **I do not know. I cannot make any attempt so long as Hyderabad does not accede to India and agree to send its representatives to this Assembly.

**Shri H.V. Kamath : **There was a rumour in the Press that Hyderabad was shortly going to accede.

**Mr. President : **I have no information.

May I suggest to honourable Members to confine themselves to ten minutes each,
because there is a very large number of speakers and many of the points have
already been covered by one speaker or the other. So, the speeches now will be
more or less a repetition. I would, therefore, suggest to honourable Members
to confine their remarks to ten minutes, if possible.

**Begum Aizaz Rasul ** (United Provinces : Muslim) : Mr. President, Sir, this is indeed a very solemn and auspicious occasion that this Constituent Assembly has finished its mighty task of drafting a Constitution for free India-a Constitution which embodies in itself the hopes and aspirations of the Indian people. If a constitution can be judged by its phraseology, or by the provisions it contains, then, certainly, our Constitution deserves a very high place in the constitutions of the world and I think we are justified in feeling proud of it. I would like to congratulate Dr. Ambedkar and members of the Drafting Committee on their wonderful work and to thank you, Mr. President, for the patient and efficient manner in which you have conducted the proceedings of this House. The Secretariat staff of the Constituent Assembly also deserve our thanks for their hard work and incessant labours.

Sir, the most outstanding feature of the Constitution is the fact that India
is to be a purely secular State. The sanctity of the Constitution lies
essentially in its affirmation of secularity and we are proud of it. I have
full faith that this secularity will always be kept guarded and unsullied, as
upon it depends that complete unity of the peoples of India without which all
hopes of progress would be in vain.

Then, Sir, being a Democratic Republic, the Constitution provides for all
citizens, individually and collectively, the best fruits of democracy and
ensures to them those basic conditions and freedoms which alone made life
secure, significant and productive. Even though these Fundamental Rights are
hedged in by various conditions and provisos, yet to my mind, Sir, they
guarantee to the citizen that meassure of liberty which is necessary for a
free and full development of his total personality. These are also justiciable
which is an essential corollary to the theory of Fundamental Rights which are
incorporated in a constitution to ensure the principle that man has certain
rights independently of the Government under which he lives and a court of
justice is there to see that these rights are not infringed by any of the
governmental bodies-the Legislature or the Executive.

Article 14 to 28 ensure to the individual social, economic and political
equality, irrespective of caste, creed or sex, religious freedom and equality
of opportunity. Articles 29 and 30 ensure to the minorities the preservation
of their language, script and culture. I hope that article 29 will be so
applied as to be effective, and primary education of children will be imparted
in their mother tongue wherever such demand is reasonably made.

But, Sir, I regret to say that article 31 relating to the right of property
has been very unfairly and unjustly embodied in the Constitution. Like
builders of cities, the makers of the Constitution frame a constitution for
all times, embodying principles of universal applicability. The Constitution
should not favour one party or one group or one province. It is regrettable
that the provisions of article 31 do not pass this test and have been made to
facilitate party programme in some provinces. It discriminates against
zamindari abolition in provinces other than the U.P., Bihar and Madras, and
also discriminates between agricultural and industrial property. It takes away
the rights of justifiability from agricultural property in these province.
This is a strange provision and makes an ugly boot on an otherwise beautiful
picture.

Sir, the introduction of adult franchise in the country means a great step
forward, but with the large masses of uneducated people this system would only
succeed if effective measures are taken immediately to educate the people of
India for citizenship.

Sir, the women of India are happy to step into their rightful heritage of
complete equality with men in all spheres of life and activity. I say so
because I am convinced that this is no new concept which has been postulated
for the purposes of this Constitution, but is an ideal that has long been
cherished by India, though social conditions for some time had tragically
debased it in practice. This Constitution affirms that ideal and gives the
solemn assurance that the rights of women in law will be wholly honoured in
the Indian Republic.

Then, Sir, one of the most important and historic features of the Constitution
is the abolition of reservation of seats for minorities. I am in the happy
position to remind the House that right from the very beginning I have
consistently supported the thesis for the abolition of these seats, as I made
clear in my speech at the time of the First Reading of this Constitution. The
part that I have played in the removal of these reservations and which I did
with the greatest sense of responsibility, was inspired by the conviction that
it was absolutely suicidal for a religious minority to keep alive the spirit
of separatism by demanding reservation on communal lines. As a matter of fact
nothing can protect a minority or group less than a barrier that divides it
from the majority. It makes it a permanently isolated group and prevents it
from moving closer to the other groups in the country. I hope that by doing
away with reservations we have also swept away those difficulties and
misunderstandings with so unfortunately marred our public and political life
in the past few years. I look forward, Sir, to the day when individuals will
cease to regard themselves as members of religious minorities. But this, Mr.
President, can only be done if and when the majority also cease to be
conscious of their majority and members of all communities, big or small,
sincerely and simultaneously begin to consider themselves and one another as
full and equal citizens of a Secular State.

Another interesting aspect of our Constitution is the fact that it is now
applicable to the whole of India, including the erstwhile Indian States. This
has been made possible by the remarkable genius of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel
who has achieved in a miraculously short period of time, in a completely non-
violent manner, the unification of our country in spite of the intransigence
and obduracy of such States as Hyderabad and Bhopal. We look forward to
welcoming very shortly in our midst the chosen representatives of Hyderabad.

May I say, Sir, what a thrill of pride we felt on reading that the Prime
Minister had referred to a quoted from the Constitution of India when he
addressed the Parliament of the mighties democracy of the modern world. By
this gesture of his we feel that the seal of authenticity has been placed on
the democratic nature of our Constitution, Sir, a constitution is judged by
the spirit in which it is worked : it is judged by the manner and method of
its implementation. Then, again, the ultimate aim of all constitutions is to
increase human happiness, human well-being and weld together the various
elements in a country into one nation. Ours is a great country with a great
destiny stretching before her. I hope and pray that the implementation of this
Constitution will be such as to enhance the prestige of our motherland and
make her a dynamic force that will bring together all nations of the world
within the orbit of a enduring peace. Sir, I support Dr. Ambedkar's motion.

**Dr. P.S. Deshmukh** (C.P. &amp; Berar : General) : Mr. President, at the very outset I would like to endorse all that has been said in praise of you and the tributes paid to you. I refer especially to the tributes paid by Mr. Maitra, Mr. Naziruddin Ahmad and Pandit Thakur Das Bhargava. I do not propose to spend more time in offering congratulations to various Members of this House who have taken such keen part and have spent all their intelligence ........

    ** An Honourable Member **: All their intelligence ?

   **Dr. P.S. Deshmukh** **: **Not all, but so much of their intelligence and have worked so hard in seeing that the Constitution was framed as far as possible to their own satisfaction.

In this Constitution we have decided to have a parliamentary democracy. It is
a parliamentary democracy modelled on the British constitution and although we
have not parliamentary sovereignty and although we have decided to encroach on
the sovereignty of our Parliament in various ways by incorporating Fundamental
Rights and many other matters of like nature, including decisions as to what
salary shall be paid to such and such individual, etc. We have gone on the
model of the British constitution more than the American constitution. So far
as similarity between ours and the American constitution is concerned it is
more in the form or the nomenclature than in the essential powers that we have
conferred on the various office-bearers or dignitaries in the Constitution.

One great merit of this Constitution I consider is that the people of this
country are not going to have a Constitution very much different from what
they are familiar with during the last ten or twelve years. With the exception
of responsibility at the Centre it is essentially the Act of 1935. I do not
mean this, for the moment at any rate, as a sort of condemnation. I am
prepared to regard it as a merit and not a demerit, because the people will
not have much difficulty in understanding the Constitution. The Governors are
there, the name of the Governor-General has been altered to the President, but
essentially the whole superstructure of the constitution of 1935 remains
intact. There is one important change which will bring about, I hope, a
radical change in the social and political status and composition of the
people in the country and that is adult franchise. Excepting for this there is
very little in the Constitution to enthuse over. But that, namely adult
franchise, is one factor which I think will make a tremendous difference to
the nature of representation in the various legislative bodies. Although the
superstructure will remain the same I have no doubt that the underdog or the
common man in India will have greater power in his hands and he will be able
to wield it to the benefit of the whole country. I look at the Constitution
from two distinct points of view and I consider it unsatisfactory from those
points of view. Firstly, if we look at it from the point of view of building a
strong nation we have certainly discountenanced many binding forces which
should have been useful and which are useful to all societies and all nations
: I mean for instance the binding force of religion. At the present day I do
not think in the whole world there is any other country which is so definitely
irreligious as India is and on the excuse or on the fundamental principle of
making our Constitution secular we have seen to it that there is not even a
shadow of our religion reflected in our Constitution. I am not a very
religious man myself but I think religion has and can certainly have a
definite place in the life of every society and in the administrations of many
States. I would not have minded if we had given some place to the noblest
religion on earth, namely the Hindu religion, and even if we wanted that the
Constitution should remain secular, even if we had declared that this shall be
a Hindu State, I have not the slightest doubt that the Constitution would have
remained as secular as we wanted it to be, because there is no religion on
earth which is more secular in character than Hinduism (_Hear, hear_) I for
one would have utilised, especially in a country like ours, the religion of
India which our forefathers and ancestors have left us for the further
unification and building up of the future Indian nation.

There is also another point of view from which I find the Constitution
defective. This parliamentary democracy is essentially meant for maintaining
the _status quo_. It is not meant to bring about a radical change from the
existing sate of affairs. We are going to keep the various institutions
intact. We want to keep the various layers of society where they were and from
that point of view I would not be surprised if this Constitution does not last
long, because it does not answer the aspirations of the man in the street at
the present time. We have praised, many of my honourable Friends have
extolled, the principles of equality, liberty and fraternity. Sir, after a
period of more than two hundred years, I think most of these very high
sounding words have lost their significance. Under these phrases it has been
possible for various countries to maintain the upper layers where they were
and to exploit the lower ranks to their hearts' content. And I think that if
the present Constitution is worked in the right spirit, if the adult franchise
makes a difference and we get the right people from the common and average men
as their representatives, then alone will it be possible for the people to
receive that benefit which they are aspiring for. Otherwise, what was good
after the French revolution cannot be good in the year 1949 and there will
have to be some sort of a rebellion or a revolution in order that the
superstructure should not remain as it is perpetually and the proletariat
coming into its own will have the powers of authority and the will-being of
the country in their own hands.

From that point of view, Sir, having a parliamentary democracy is not
answering the requirements of the present age. Unless the adult franchise
itself is going to make a difference, unless the vested interests which will
try to maintain the _status quo_ find themselves powerless to maintain their
own present hold under the altered circumstances of the future, then alone is
this constitution likely to work. Otherwise the Constitution required under
the percentage is entirely different, at least as different as Mahatmaji
himself wanted it. After all, we have worked this very Constitution during the
last three years and it is quite easy to see from this experience that there
is not going to be much material difference between the way in which we have
administered the country for the last three years and what we may do
hereafter. And if we look back at it we will find that we have not been able
to answer or to satisfy the aspirations of the people. It is no exaggeration
to say that there is, however imperceptible, a conflict arising between the
Government on the one hand and the people on the other. It is no use consoling
ourselves by saying that the discontent is not able to focus its attention or
to organise itself in one single party so as to damage the administration of
the present day. But that may very easily come about because the signs and the
seeds are there. The people are thinking that this is not our administration
because they have got so many grievances, so many items of discontent. So,
from that point of view I am doubtful whether this Constitution really answers
or satisfies either the genius of the Indian people or the requirements of the
present age.  
Sir, apart from that we have undoubtedly achieved very many things for which
we ourselves deserve congratulations and the person who deserves the highest
congratulation is the Iron man of India, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. It was he
who brought about homogeneity in the sub-continent of India by liquidation of
all the Sates. Then, the minorities and the various other impediments in the
working of a proper democracy have also been removed largely by his wisdom, by
his prudence and by his tactful handling than that of anybody else. So, from
that point of view we have achieved a great deal. In giving adult franchise,
in abolishing all special interests and representations, in abolishing the
States and in also liquidating many of the vested interests, we have certainly
advanced a great deal. But in discouraging or denouncing certain of the vested
interests we have also strengthened some others. In times to come it must be
our endeavour to see that these vested interests also do not remain as
impregnable fortresses of conservatism and old-age philosophies and in that
connection I would certainly like to express that the people of India should
cultivate a sort of respect for this Constitution. If and when they find it
wanting, it may then be time for them to change it. But there is no doubt that
we have done our best to incorporate the essentials of a democratic Government
in it.

Some people have objected that the President has been given too much power. I
too agree that in some cases the President's powers are extensive but really
speaking these are not the President's powers, they are the powers of the
executive and the Prime Minister. I do not think the President will be able to
act in any other way except as a constitutional monarch. He will have no
initiative, he will have very little power to act arbitrarily; it is the
Central Government which is clothed with more executive power. Sir, I had
proposed that we should have a unitary form of government, but I have the
satisfaction that although we have not incorporated a full-fledged and full-
blooded unitary form of government, our Constitution is more unitary than
federal and from that point of view I think it is a much greater improvement
from the time we set about this task.

I have one or two complaints to make, but I do not think this is the
opportunity when we should resort to any fault-finding. It is enough to say
that the people who are known as the backward communities of India, have not
been treated as fairly as I would have liked them to be. There would have been
no harm if my suggestion in this respect were accepted, but if it was not
found acceptable for incorporation in the Constitution. I hope the sympathetic
attitude which many people have towards them will be reflected in the
legislation that we may pass hereafter or the policies we may pursue. After
all, the whole of India is economically and educationally backward. There are
only very insignificant proportions of our people who have got either the
wealth or the education or the various good things in life. The generality of
the people are destitute, are ill-fed, their health is very little cared for.
Therefore, the handicaps and the sufferings of the people like the Scheduled
Castes and Scheduled Tribes are also, in a large measure, shared by vast
communities which are in the Hindu fold itself. That being so, I would say
that it would be very desirable that the sympathy which we show towards the
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes should also, in a measure, be extended
to these people who have yet to see any benefits accruing from the freedom
that we have achieved, and the more sympathy we show, the better will it be
for the homogeneity of the Indian society.

Sir, I again thank you for the lattitude you gave us from time to time and the
way in which you have conducted the proceedings of this House. It has given
immense pleassure and every satisfaction to every Member of the House and I
for one would like to pay you this tribute once over again.

**Shri Sita Ram S. Jajoo** (Madhya Bharat) : Mr. President, Sir, it is a matter of great pride that I stand here to support the motion of the Honourable Dr. Ambedkar. I have no desire of entering into the history of the idea of the Constituent Assembly, but so far as I am concerned, as a representative from an Indian State, I feel gratified at the development and evolution of the association of the Indian States people in the present Constituent Assembly. We the people in the Indian States, under the Presidentship of the present Prime Minister of India, the Honourable Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, and later on Dr. Pattabhi Sitaramayya and Sheikh Abdullah, have tried and agitated for the association of the Indian States people with the Indian Union. We have wanted that there should be no distinction of any kind between the representatives of the people of Indian States and those of the then British India. We thought that racially, culturally, ethnologically and in every other respect we were the same people, we were the same race and we had all common interests with the rest of the country. Fortunately for us, Mahatma Gandhi, Father of our Nation and other national leaders realised it and with their blessings we achieved success and marched from one milestone to another and ultimately we have been associated in this Assembly under your very able guidance. Mr. President, Sir, you started the negotiations with the Princes which ultimately resulted in that there are now only a few handful of people who were their nominees and that the rest are all the elected representatives of the Indian people. As a matter of fact we fell that by a single stroke of the pen we have wiped off the history of 200 or more years during which period the foreign Government created various interests here with a view to perpetuating their imperialistic interests and their strangle hold on this country.  
Sir, in this Constitution as regards the chapter on Indian States we felt that
the control of the Centre over the Indian States was wrong; I was strongly of
the opinion that such control was an insult to the people of the Indian
States. With that view I with other friends of mine particularly Shri Balwant
Singh Mehta, brought that matter to the notice of the Drafting Committee, its
Chairman, Dr. Ambedkar, Shri T.T. Krishnamachari and others. It was very kind
of them that they did hear us and told us that the circumstances in the Indian
Sates were such that they could not take any different attitude. We
reluctantly agreed with them, but still believed that there was no necessity
of making this distinction in the Constitution. Later on we heard and we see
it provided in the Constitution that the provinces also get the same
treatment. That is a consolation for us, as the proverb goes 'that misery
still delights in its resemblance with another's case'. But still we feel that
we should not be treated like that.

Sir, there has been a change since the Partition in the political ideology of
the country from provincial autonomy to the strengthening of the Centre and
the desire to grab as much power to the Centre as possible is there. I am not
going to criticise this change in the ideology, because that is perhaps the
view of our leaders. They want to strengthen the country. After the Partition,
other things have also developed. Those developments are not our own creation.
We feel, however, that on the whole whatever has been done in the States is a
grand achievement and further we have the assurance given by the Deputy Prime
Minister who is also Minister for the States that there will be least
interference with the administration of the States. I hope we will not be
treated like Harijans.  
Our greatest achievement is that the people in the States who were being
treated as sub-humans with no civil rights or civil liberties are now granted
these rights and have been brought on par with the rest of the people residing
in this country. The old system has been obliterated and the systems of forced
labour and other inhuman customs are not to be perpetuated any more. But it
remains to be seen how far we will succeed in implementing the provisions in
the Constitution. I have no doubt that under the able guidance of our Prime
Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister we will see that our aspirations are
fulfilled fully well.

Another thing we have achieved, concerns the minorities. Separate electorates
had been the cause of discontent in the country and also the cause of
partition of the country. We have now wiped them off. But there is one thing
about which I would like to warn my co-religionists who are in a majority
here. We have done away with reservation of seats and separate electorates
except in the case of Harijans and that too only for 10 years. Now we have to
remember that the treatment we met out to the minorities during the next ten
years and the goodwill we show them should be such that at the end of this
period we should be able to wipe off the reservations for the Scheduled Castes
also. If we fail in this respect in this test, our failure will remain to our
lasting discredit. We have to prove by our action that we are men of goodwill.
This is the time for action. No provision in the Constitution will be equal to
that. Not professions but actions are needed, and I hope we shall not fail.

Another point I wish to dwell upon relates to the financial integration of our
country. I feel that by having financial integration we are strengthening the
Centre. But we have to see that the Indian States which contribute much to our
coffers are treated fairly. You are taking many things from them and do not
become financial wrecks. in Madhya Bharat and other States particularly in
Rajasthan, you have taken Bikaner, Jodhpur and Udaipur railways. In case they
do not get a fair help and subsidy from the Centre, financially they will be
only wrecks. You have to see that they get a fair chance to govern and manage
their affairs well.

Administratively we have been hearing from our administrators that the Indian
States people have been dubbed incompetent. I refute such statements about the
Indian States. There are probably more glaring cases of maladministration in
the provinces. We all know what is happening in certain provinces now. If
everybody says that the Indian States are not sufficiently advanced for
handing over power, I ask what has been happening in Madras Province, in West
Bengal and in the East Punjab ?

**Shri L. Krishnaswami Bharati **(Madras : General) : What do you know of Madras ?

**Shri Sita Ram S. Jajoo : **If I do not know anything about Madras, I challenge those who come from the Provinces to say what they know of Indian States. There is no reason why you should dub the hundreds of Indian States as backward. We may be backward and yet we may get representation here. But there is one thing you should remember. We are human beings with the same aspirations and ambitions as others. We have all been slaves with you and fortunately for all of us we have been redeemed from that slavery. Thanks to Bapu. I do not see how you are superior to us. I will never concede that. So far as the administration is concerned, as it is under the able guidance of the Deputy Prime Minister, all the administrative services have been integrated and we feel we should have a fair chance and representation. One request of mine in this connection is that the people of the Indian State should not be given the cold shoulder.

Another thing is that people have been saying 'I am not going to defend this
Constitution. There are more competent gentlemen like Dr. Ambedkar and Shri
T.T. Krishnamachari for that'. I do not agree with them. They say that this
Constitution does not go far enough. I do not agree with them also. This
Constitution according to me, is suited to Indian conditions. I do not think
in the present circumstances anybody could improve it. Everywhere we find that
all man-made things are faulty and there is always room for improvement. And
in the present circumstances we could not make a better Constitution than
this. But I am confident that had the Father of the Nation been alive today he
would have certainly approved of it, though he might have not entirely agreed
with it. There are provisions in the Constitution which show that we have
whole-heartedly followed the Gandhian philosophy. The Constitution contains
the seeds of all that Gandhiji had taught us and these seeds would flower if
the Constitution is worked properly.

Under the Constitution we have drown up we can fulfil all our election
manifestoes and promises to the electorate provided we work it in the spirit
in which it is conceived. It is not the letter of the law or the articles that
we should look to for guidance. We should be guided by the spirit in which we
have framed the Constitution. As for example, Sir, though it is not provided
in the Constitution we have the assurance of our Prime Minister that so long
as he is Prime Minister salt tax is not going to be reimposed in the country.  
Another change is that this is a voluminous constitution, for that I have to
draw your attention to the fact that there are certain things which, if you
leave provisions relating to them as you find them in the Constitution, the
result will be jugglery of the lawyers and the judiciary will interpret many
of them in such a way that the people will be the sufferer.

Sir, now I will refer to tte question of property rights. It is provided in
this Constitution, Sir, that the zamindaris, will be abolished only in
provinces where Bills to that effect are introduced before the 26th January,
1950. This abolition should come into force throughout India on a uniform
basis. Everywhere zamindaris should be abolished by the 26th January next. In
the feudal or vested interests. The opportunity is there and we have full
faith in our leaders Pandit Nehru and Sardar Patel that they will achieve this
and lead the country forward taking one milestone after another. Our ambition
to make a Constitution for ourselves has been fulfilled. Here we have ended
one part of our journey to take up the greater task of fulfilling and
implementing the aspirations underlying this Constitution. Now it has to be
judged how we are going to put it into practice and fulfil our promises to the
electorates. We who have been swearing in the name of Mahatma Gandhi on every
available opportunity have to show in actual practice that our actions will
not be inconsistent with his principles. Particularly on Congressmen falls the
duty of seeing that we are true to the Mahatma's ideals and do not fall
victims to communalists or vested interests.

We should take a practical view of the whole thing and see to it that people
are not victimised by vested interests.

We have to see that we get out of the clutches of the vested interests. We
approve of the Constitution as worthy of the objectives and worthy of the
(Objectives) Resolution that we have passed here. With these works, Sir, I
support the motion which has been moved by the Honourable Dr. B.R. ambedkar.

**Mr. President : **Pandit Hirday Nath Kunzru.

**Shri Lokanath Misra **(Orissa : General) : I hope, those who gave their names on the first day will have their chance.

**Mr. president : **I am not calling the names in the order in which they came.

**Shri Loknath Misra : **None the less, I hope those who gave their names ought to have their chance.

**Pandit Hirday Nath Kunzru **(United Provinces : General) : Mr. president, no one who considers the Constitution as a whole can but approach it with a full sense of responsibility. It may not be what everyone of us would have desired it to be but I think that the wholesale condemnation of what is contained in it, which has been indulged in by some people here and outside is out of place. In this connection, Sir, we must all in fairness pay a tribute to the Drafting Committee for the efficiency and thoroughness with which it dealt with its task. Its members have had to work hard individually and collectively, and while it is impossible for anyone to say that all their recommendations are of such a character as to win the approval of all sections of the House, it must be admitted that they approached their duties, in so far as they were free to give effect to their wishes, with a desire to enlarge the bounds of freedom. In this connection, Sir, I should like to pay a tribute to the officers and staff of the Constituent Assembly whose duty it was to help the Drafting Committee in placing its recommendations before the House and honourable Members in obtaining information and understanding the various provisions of the Constitution. Perhaps I have proved more troublesome to them than any other Member of this House.

**Shri H.V. Kamath **(C.P. &amp; Berar : General) : There are some others also.

**Pandit Hirday Nath Kunzru : **I should therefore, like on this occasion to pay my acknowledgments for not merely their efficiency but the splendid spirit in which they worked. I do not think that anything can exceed their sense of duty or their enthusiasm for the work with which they were concerned.

**Shri T.T. Krishnamachari **(Madras : General) : Hear, hear.

**Pandit Hirday Nath Kunzru : **I sincerely think we should place our sense of gratitude to them on record.  
Sir, there are many points of view from which we can look at the Constitution
but I think that the more distinctive features of the Constitution are those
that relate to individual liberty and the relations that will prevail in
future between the Centre and the component units. The main article dealing
with the first point is article 22. I recognise that that article places
certain restrictions on the power of the provincial Governments and the
Central Government that did not exist before. For instance, under the public
Safety Acts, many provincial governments had accepted the responsibility of
supplying information to the detenus with regard to the charges on which they
had been detained only if they were asked for it. Again, it has been found in
several cases that there was undue delay in supplying the information. Another
defective feature of the provincial Public Safety Acts was that they did not
provide for the reference of the cases of detenus to an Advisory Board, so
that even if no judicial examination of the charges was possible the public
might feel that some impartial body had considered the charges and judged
whether the detention was justifiable or not. Under article 22 the case of
every detenus will go before an Advisory Board composed of persons who have
been judges of a High Court or are qualified to be appointed as Judges. Again
Sir, the government concerned will be under an obligation to inform detention.
It is further provided that no man unless he has been detained in accordance
with the law passed by Parliament shall be kept in detention for a longer
period than that prescribed by Parliament by law. article 22, therefore,
removes some the defects that existed formerly. Nevertheless sour experience
of the existing restrictive laws shows that scope is so narrow that it can not
deal with some of the difficulties that have arisen in various provinces.  
Sir, although the Public Safety Acts have given full power to the Provincial
Governments to detain persons who in their opinion have committed or are about
to commit acts prejudicial to the public safety, nevertheless the High Courts
had intervened in some cases and ordered the release of detenus on the ground
that the charges against them were vague, indefinite or incomplete and did not
contain sufficient information to enable them to make the representations
contemplated by the Acts. Some of the Governments following the leader of the
Central Provinces Government amended their laws so as to prevent the High
Courts from releasing anybody on these grounds. The Madras Government has
recently amended its law in this sense and the Minister of law stated in the
Madras Assembly that the change had been introduced at the instance of the
Government of India. Dr. Ambedkar has placed before us an article that would
impose restrictions on the powers of the Provincial Governments, but his
Government, possibly his own Ministry, has advised the Provincial Governments
to choose an indirect way of ousting the jurisdiction of the High Courts.
Another illustration will also show how narrow the scope of article 22 is . In
a case that came before the Central provinces High Court a few months ago the
High Court found that the charges were groundless. The facts and the evidence
placed before it by the detenus concerned showed that there was no ground for
the apprehension entertained by the Provincial Government and that the facts
mentioned by it and the grounds for arrest communicated by it to the detenus
had no basis in fact. I suppose that the Central Provinces Government
communicated definite charges to the detenus because it feared that the High
Court might otherwise hold that the detention was not justified, but article
22, as placed before us and as passed by the Assembly, would afford scarcely
any relief in such a case. Neither the Central Government nor the Provincial
Governments would be under an obligation to communicate definite charges to
the detenus and consequently the High Courts would be unable to exercise even
the little supervision that they have so far been able to do.  
Sir, there is one other feature of the Constitution................

**Shri T.T. Krishnamachari : **May I point out to my honourable Friend that clause (1) of article 22 might probably cover the case he has in mind ?

**Pandit Hirday Nath Kunzru : **Clause (1) of article 22 does not relate to cases of persons who are detained under any preventive law. I am speaking of persons arrested under the Public Safety Acts and not of people arrested under the ordinary law. I do not, therefore, think that clause (1) of article 22 will apply to the cases of persons to whom I have been referring.

Sir, there is one other feature of the Constitution that I should like to
refer to in this connection. The administration of a law is a matter of no
less importance than its provisions. It is necessary, therefore, that the
position of the judiciary should be strengthened and that every step should be
taken to devise a machinery that would ensure that impartial justice was meted
out to everybody, but I fear that the constitution will not promote what is
necessary for this purpose, _viz_., the separation of the Judiciary from the
executive. The form in which the recommendation on this subject was placed
before us required that this reform should be carried out in three years, but
the reference to this period was deleted when the recommendation was discussed
by the House. Consequently the recommendation is only of a general character
now. I know that in madras at least the scheme for the separation of Judiciary
from the Executive has been put into effect in one or two districts and that
in one or two other provinces schemes for carrying out this purpose are under
consideration. But, the Constitution as it is, does not enable us to exercise
any pressure on the provincial Governments to effect this reform as speedily
as possible.  
Again, take the position of the High Courts. It will be more than ever
necessary in the future that the highest legal talent should be attracted to
the High Courts and that they should enjoy a high degree of prestige. I fear,
however, Sir, that provisions relating to the salaries and pensions of the
Judges taken in conjunction with the prohibition of private practice will not
induce men with the highest legal qualifications to take up judgeships in the
High Courts. It is still open to us to revise the law regarding the payment of
pensions to the High Court Judges so that there may be at least one law that
would induce really able men to accept Judgeships. I do not want to go into
the details of this subject; but in my opinion, what is necessary is that the
pension of a Judge taken from the Bar should not depend on the length of his
service and that the pension given to such a Judge and perhaps even to other
Judges should be as high as it is, for instance in England. At the present
pension on their retirement. I think that the pension should in the future not
be less than two-thirds of the salary.

Another way of strengthening the prestige of the High Courts and of creating
confidence in the minds of the public in the efficiency and purity of judicial
administration, would be to allow the High Courts to appoint and transfer
District Judges. It was at first contemplated that our Constitution should
confer such an authority on the High Court. But, unfortunately, the article
that was placed before the House was revised so as to take away this power
from them. This is a weakness of our Constitution which is deeply to be
regretted. All these features taken together show that the Drafting Committee
and perhaps the Central Government have not realised the importance of the
provisions relating to the future judicial administration of the country.

Now, Sir, I shall deal only with one more point before I sit down. In judging
the character of the provisions relating to the distribution of powers between
the Centre and the Provinces, I shall not be guided by any theory. There is no
uniform definition of federalism. Federal constitutions are of various kinds.
What we have to see is whether the relations that would prevail between the
centre and the component units will be such as to promote the growth of
democracy and a due sense of responsibility among the provincial Governments.
The experience of federal Governments in various parts of the world has shown
that it is necessary to endow the Central Government with the power to deal
with certain important matters which certain Constitutions have placed within
the jurisdiction of the component units. Experience has also shown that it is
desirable in view of the conditions prevailing now that the Central Government
should have considerable power in the economic sphere, so as to be in a
position to raise the standard of living of the masses and to bring about an
increase in the production of wealth in the country. We know how important the
economic factor has proved to be in various countries. The power conferred on
the Union Government by this Constitution in regard to economic matters is
then at once to be welcome.

Again, it is a welcome feature of the Constitution that the Central Government
will be in a position to implement the treaties to which it is a party, or any
convertions that it has agreed to. in my opinion and in the opinion of Indians
in general, it was a serious defect in the Government of India Act, 1935 that
the Central Government did not possess this power. Again, Sir, it is necessary
that the Central Government which is responsible for the security of the
country should be able to intervene effectively when the national security is
threatened by external or internal causes. But there are certain powers given
to the Central Government that in my opinion are not required either by
experience in other countries or by the developments that have taken place in
the world since the end of the last war.

Sir, the provisions that I have in view are those relating to the annulment of
the financial relations between the Centre and the constituent units in an
emergency and the control to be exercised by the Central Government over
provincial budgets when the President is of opinion that a financial emergency
has arisen there. I do not think that these provisions are called for. I have
had opportunities of discussing these questions at length and I shall not
therefore dilate on them now, but these two articles and the article No. 365
show that our Constitution is over-centralized. Even in the circumstances
prevailing in India, it is not necessary that the Central Government should
regard the Provincial Governments as its perpetual wards. Under the Government
of India Act, 1935, the governor, I believe, was responsible among other
things for the maintenance of the financial stability and credit of his
province. Tthe Central Government under this Constitution will taken the place
of the Governor. We have not been content with the re-introduction of Section
93 into our constitution in a slightly changed form but have also borrowed
from that Act in respect of the control to be exercised over democratic
provincial governments in regard to their finances. Article 365 in my opinion
shows that the provisions of the Constitution relating to the distribution of
powers between the Central and State Governments are based on a complete
distrust of the provinces. We are trying to usher in an era of full democratic
government and yet we begin by distrusting the States on which it will
ultimately depend whether democracy succeeds in this country or not. I fear
that the Central Government has taken too much responsibility on itself and
that the Constitution may, instead of making the State governments realize
their responsibility, will discourage them in the performance of their task
and make them feel that they are no more than agents of the Central
Government. Such a feeling cannot promote the development of a full sense of
responsibility nor can it stimulate the provincial electorates and the
legislatures to exercise the supervision that they should in a self-governing
country.

Sir, while speaking of the future Constitution of the States I hope you will
allow me to say a word about adult franchise on the basis of which members of
the Provincial Assemblies will be elected. There is no doubt that property is
not a satisfactory basis of franchise. If a man does not pay a tax or does not
live in house of a particular rental value, he does not thereby cease to be a
citizen. On the contrary perhaps the neglect from which men like him have
suffered for generations is a reason why he should enjoy the power to vote and
to bring pressure on those on whom the improvement of his condition depends.
But we have to consider whether the sudden expansion of the franchise that
will be brought about by adult franchise will be helpful to the development of
democratic ideas and that sense of discrimination and restraint on which the
successful exercise of democracy depends. In the provinces I believe not more
than 18 per cent. of the adult population is enfranchised at the present time.
In the States the adult population is enfranchised at the present time. In the
States mentioned in Part B of the Constitution there is hardly any franchise.
In many of them there are hardly any local bodies. It seems to me therefore
that to go at one bound from a greatly restricted to universal franchise is
not the part of wisdom. Had we graduated the lowering of the franchise so as
to bring about adult franchise within a definite period of time-say 15 years-
and been content immediately with say, the enfranchisement of between 40 to 50
per cent. of the people, we should probably have allowed less room for
demagogy and made it easier both for political parties and individual
candidates to meet the electors and educate them; but under the conditions
that will prevail under this Constitution, I fear that the education of the
electorates will be a needlessly difficult task. All those that have had
experience of the ignorance of the electors under the present Constitution
will, I hope, agree with me in the view that I have taken of the sudden
expansion of the franchise. As, however, it is not possible to change anything
in the Constitution before us, let us hope that the political parties in the
country and public men ardently desirous of enabling every person to become a
responsible citizen will take all possible measures to enable the electorate
to understand the duties that it will be called upon to perform and to provide
the conditions that will make it possible for the elector to become a self-
respecting citizen capable of thinking out, at any rate, the ordinary issues
for himself.

Sir, the Constitution, judged from the point of view that I have placed before
the House, one cannot but be received with mixed feelings. There are
undoubtedly some features of the Constitution that deserve every praise. The
Chapter on Fundamental Rights, though some of the provisions in it are open to
serious criticism, confers substantial rights on the people of the country,
and particularly on the oppressed minorities. It also gives assurances to the
minorities that are of the greatest value. Take again the provisions relating
to the manner in which the public servants are to be recruited in future. It
is upon their honesty and efficiency that the future of the country will
depend to no small extent. I think we can feel sure that in so far as the law
can provide for it, this Constitution ensures that no man shall be appointed
to a public post except on the ground of merit. That is undoubtedly a great
achievement and our gratitude is due to the Members of the Drafting Committee
and to the House for this feature of the Constitution. But there are several
features of it to which one can not give one's full-hearted support. But
support we must, the Constitution at this juncture. I do not think any one of
us can cast his vote against it. But some of us at least will regret. Some of
the important features of this Constitution and wish that it had been possible
in accordance with the suggestion made by the Prime Minister some months back,
to amend the Constitution for a few years, as if it were an ordinary law.
(_Cheers._)

**Shri Syamanandan Sahaya** (Bihar : General) : Mr. President, Sir, the present is a unique occasion in many respects; but above all, it is an occasion for prayerful thanks-giving to the Creator of us all, for the fulfilment of the ambitions and aspirations of our leaders who fought valiantly, now for over half a century, and never considered any sacrifice too great for the achievement of the objectives the fruits of which we are here now to enjoy. How much we wish we had some of them amongst us today to bless us and to guide us in our onward march. I wish also that some spiritual background would have found place as an important feature of this Constitution. This would not have made this Constitution any the different from others, because we find such references in other Constitution also. In our case, however, this matter assumes greater importance because for once in the history of religion and politics, it was the great Mahatma who brought them together, and not only showed the place of religion in politics, but also laid truthful but also the means employed to achieve the end if the end is to be of any permanent good. Some of us, Sir, feel that it is not right to mix up politics with spiritualism. That in my opinion, is not the need of the hour. While speaking here, or even in other countries, do not our leaders express the importance of the spiritual background of this country ? And would it do, I ask, any credit to us, if we do not give expression to this background in the very first act of this Nation ? However, even if this does not find a place in the written constitution of this country, I trust that in carrying out the purpose of this Constitution, our countrymen and our leaders will keep God in front of them, and in their hearts, and then alone the Constitution will be really successfully worked.

This day Sir, is again a day for expression of gratitude to the Rishis of old
who laid the foundations of this country, spiritural, economic, social and
religious, on such firm grounds. The Grand old man of India, Dr.
Sachchidananda Singh, while presiding at the preliminary stages of this
Assembly, in concluding his speech, quoted the famous verse of the great
Indian poet Iqbal-

_Unan o Misr Roman sab_  
_        mit gaye jahan se,_  
_Baqi abhi talak hai_  
_        Hindustan hamara,_  
_kuchh bat hai ki_  
_                hasti mitti nahin hamari,_  
_sadion raha hai dushman_  
_        daure zaman hamara._

The poet says there must be something inherent in us, that we are still
existing. What is that inherent thing obtaining in this country as compared to
others ? I submit, Sir, it is the spiritual background all through.  
As I said before, the present is a unique occasion, and it is unique in many
respects. It is unique in the annals of history, which depicts the past. If we
look back to our history, it will be conceded that although we have had at one
time milk and honey, flowing in this country under able rulers, and although
we had what we are still striving for, _viz._, Ram Rajya; but it was all the
rule of a benevolent ruler, and not a law given unto ourselves by the
representatives of the people. I therefore say, Sir, that this is a unique
occasion even if you compare the present with our hoary past. Even the future,
I submit, will have nothing to equal it. We may have reforms in this
Constitution, and we may have better things in the future, but the originality
that this Constitution will claim, would not possibly be available to any
other.

It is unique, Sir, because we have been able to incorporate in this
Constitution not only what was called British India but also the States which
were under the administration of hereditary rulers. We can now visualise India
as such with one type of administration from Cape Comorin to the Himalayas.  
While thinking of this one cannot fail to have a feeling of remorse at the
separation of the two wings of this country. Let us hope, however, that good
sense will prevail on our countrymen wherever they may be and that we shall
have India as we all considered India to be from times long gone by.

The entire credit for this unity that has been brought about must go, Sir, to
that firm old man of India, Sardar Vallabbbbai Patel. We had read of a Latin
saying : "vidi vini vici", and now we have seen it translated into action;
because that is what the Sardar has done in the matter of the merger of the
States. He went, he saw and he conquered. May he be spared long to serve his
country is the prayerful wish uppermost in the minds of all his countrymen.

The present, Sir, is unique again from another consideration, because it
ushers in independence to this country brought about by a method unknown in
the past, the method of non-violent non-cooperation or _satyagraha_. The non-
violent method of meeting your opponent without any ill-will towards him has
already achieved wonders and will remain an abiding article of faith for the
whole world. What a tragedy, what an agonising decision of fate that the man
through whose _tapasya_ alone this was secured is no more amongst us ! India
needed him ever so much more today. The effect of that tapasya is seen by the
results we have achieved in so short a time. But what really pleasantly
surprising is that all that some of us talked about in the past regarding
safeguards and reservations finds a very small place in this Constitution.
What a pleasure that those who were enthusiats of such safeguards have
willingly surrendered all that in the larger interests of the Nation and they
deserve our best congratulation for this.  
Last, though not the least, this Constitution is unique in another respect.
Mahatmaji's methods once again proved how with goodwill towards opponents, one
could win over and conquer the worst of critics and we now see a practical
example of a high ideal translated into action, namely that the achievement of
independence would go to the credit of Mahatmaji, and its codification to one
of Mahatmaji's worst critics, viz., the great architect of our great
Constitution Dr. Ambedkar. Dr. Ambedkar, Sir, deserves the gratitude not only
of this Assembly but of this Nation. He and his colleagues on the committee
have laboured to find out the best things almost all over the world and to
suit them to the needs of this country. The masterly way in which they
prepared the draft and the masterly way in which Dr. Ambedkar piloted it will
ever be remembered not only by us but by the posterity with gratitude. many a
defect has been pointed out in this Constitution. I do not think the framers
of this Constitution claim any perfection for it, but it can not be denied
that there has been a sincere and a genuine effort to bring about as large a
measure of perfection as it was possible under present conditions. Some
friends and critics have compared it with constitutions framed on a tennis
court as in France, or with constitutions framed by thirty-nine almost self-
elected representatives in America. Administrative problems and principles
have gone far ahead since 1797 and it would not do for any nation or any set
of people framing a constitution to ignore the onward march and the progress
made during the last one and three quarters of a century.

This constitution, Sir, envisages a kind of Federo-Unitary system of
Government, leaning largely towards the unitary system. The long list of
concurrent and Central subjects in the field of legislation and taxation, the
powers to take over the administration of states under certain conditions, the
powers to issue directives to states even in executive matters, certainly make
it more unitary than federal. I do not contend that there was no justification
for it. But I have no doubt a feeling in my mind that it would have been as
well that we had started with greater confidence in the people and the States
than what we have betrayed in that part of the Constitution where we deal with
the States and the Provinces.

In the matter of fundamental Rights again, Sir, my feeling is that it has been
hedged in by too many conditions and that although we provide for all the
liberties in the constitution, in the very following paragraphs we laid down
conditions by which such liberty could be seriously restricted. In fact we
have not even given a time-limit to such legislations which restrict the
liberty of the citizen. As you may be aware, Sir, in the past every such
legislation had a definite life but under this Constitution we have laid down
that legislations could be introduced and passed without giving a time-limit
to the restrictions they impose on the liberty of the citizen. Perhaps in the
present conditions it may be considered as a safety measure; but I will
contend again that it would have been better had we started with a little more
confidence in our people and left it to the judiciary to punish those who
wanted to convert their liberty into licence. After all what is it that the
man in the street or the common man desires independence for ? He wants to
find in the newly-won independence of the country something exhilarating,
something new about his status, so that he may be able to start about without
fear of the loss of his liberty. That feeling, I submit, will be found
wanting. If we refer to clauses (2) to (6) of article 19 of part III it will
be quite clear even to a causal reader that we have tried to place too many
restrictions on the common man and too much powers in the hands of the
administration. However, much will depend upon the manner in which this
Constitution is implemented and I have no doubt, knowing as we do our leaders,
that there will not be many occasions to exercise the powers vested in the
Government.

In the matter of financial adjustments between Provinces and the centre I
think that the Provinces have not been treated as well as they should be. In
fact I have a feeling that in this matter the Provinces are worse off than in
the days of the 1935 Act. The responsibilities of the Provinces, their
commitments and their sphere for introducing ameliorative measures for the
people are for greater than even those of the Centre and as such they should
have been given sufficient scope in the field of taxation. As you are aware,
Sir, in Bihar alone although we have the biggest steel factory not only in
this country but at one time it was supposed to be the second biggest in the
Empire, although our coal resources supply coal to the entire country,
although our mica is perhaps the best exporting material, yet because the head
offices of all these concerns happen to be either in Bombay or Calcutta the
province itself gets very little out of them even by way of income tax. The
other day we heard an Assam representative putting forth the same grievance.
Considering what we are up against in the matter of our financial resources it
would be necessary that this matter must form the subject of serious
consideration between representatives of the Centre, the Provinces and the
States.

I feel that in the matter of framing the constitution we have superimposed a
Constitution from above and have not made a real effort to start from village
life. This matter, as you will remember, formed the subject of an important
discussion in this House and I must admit that for once and for the first time
I thought that Dr. Ambedkar was not only in the wrong but very much in the
wrong. His idea of the village life in this country appeared to be highly
inaccurate. It is the countryside that provides all tat we need in the towns.
Whether you look at the military, the civil administration or the production
of food, it is the village and the villager that supply the needs and it will
not do to say that they are past redemption. After all they form the bulk of
the population of this country. If they have not been up to the expectation of
some people, who are to blame ? The Centre in the past did not given them the
attention that they deserved. Do we propose to do the same ? If we do so I
submit we shall do so at our peril. Unfortunately we have kept the 1935 Act
very much in the forefront and hence the other aspects necessary for the
uplift of this country have not been properly thought out and have not got the
attention that they deserve.  
Further we have made a written constitution but we know of countries which
have not written constitution and yet they are functioning as well as if not
better than many countries which have a written constitution. It therefore
depends very largely on how the constitution is worked. There is no dearth of
able men in the country and if a real attempt is made to harness their
services without any consideration for their particular affiliations I have no
doubt that we shall soon be able to show the real worth of the people and this
Constitution.

Before I conclude, I must express the feelings which I and other members have
with regard to the very able manner in which the proceedings of this House
have been conducted by you, Sir, As far as I know you have never been a member
of legislature before but the manner in which you have conducted the debates
and upheld the best traditions of a legislature will do credit to some of the
best parliamentarians that the world has produced. It is therefore, a matter
of gratification for all of us.

I do not think I should conclude without saying a word about the great leaders
of the opposition in the House-Messrs. Kamath, Sidhva, Naziruddin Ahmed and
last but not least the veteran constitutionalist from Bihar M. Brajeshwar
Preasad. The large number of amendments that the Drafting Committee had
ultimately to propose does show that there was a great deal of substance in
the proposals that these gallant Members were making from time to time. Prof.
Shah, a valiant fighter, also gave way at the end when the battalion was
joined by Mr. Brajeshwar Prasad and with the full enthusiasm of a neo-convert
he carried on the fight to the best of his ability. In fact but for these men
we might have been accused of hustling the constitution and to them is due our
individual thanks for the way they have carried on the debates now for full
three years.

Our Leader have secured the independence of the country, we have now given to
ourselves a constitution but this is not the end of our troubles. It is, if I
may say so, the beginning of our troubles. Let us keep before our eyes
therefore the wise saying that "Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty" and
let us behave in such a manner that it might not ever be said of us that :

Khola kafas to taqate parwz hi nahin  
Bulbul tere nasib ko sayyad kya kare.

**Shri Rohini Kumar Chaudhuri **(Assam : General) : Mr. President, Sir, I am surprised that some of my honourable Friends have even at this state of the proceedings chose to deliver serious and sombre speeches. To me it is a week of joy and rejoicing. Before this week is out, we shall have passed a Constitution which, in my humble opinion, will not only be the pride of India but also a wonder of the world. Sir, under your able guidance, under your distinguished guidance, we will have passed a Constitution which has avoided world and at the same time has culled the best principles of those Constitutions and embodied them in one single Constitution for free India. It has not only satisfied the aspirations of the liberty-loving young men and women of India, but it has also added to the past glory of India. It fills our heart of India, but it has also added to the past glory of India. It fills our heart with joy when we consider that once more this ancient land which was hitherto known as India only will be known as Bharat. It fills our heart with pride when we remember that Hindi is going to be the official language of this newly-liberated country. It fills us with pride when we see that Devanagri has been taken as the script for the entire country. Sir, I feel beholden to my Muslim brethren in this House who have unhesitatingly and in one single voice supported us in fulfilling this desire of India.

Thanks are due to many in this House for this Constitution, I would not like
to repeat their names, but I can not help feeling that you, Sir, have laid us
under a deep debt of obligation and gratitude throughout the proceedings. You
have been a monument of patience for men like me and others. I take this
opportunity of thanking you on behalf of Mr. Naziruddin Ahmad, Mr. Sidhva, Mr.
Kamath and myself. I should have liked to add the name of Prof. K.T. Shah in
this list but I refrain from doing so advisedly. He has been reticent,
entirely reticent, for the last two sessions. It seems that while in the case
of Mr. Naziruddin Ahmad the thieves have only taken away the copies of his
amendments, in the case of Prof. Shah the entire original copies have been
taken away, and it is for this reason that in the last session we did not have
his speeches nor any amendments from him excepting a few.  
Sir, I remember vividly the words which were uttered by that gallant
gentleman, Dr. Sachchidananda Sinha who opened the proceedings of this House
and who congratulated you on your election. He said that throughout the course
of your life you had never stood second. You had stood first in the Calcutta
University the territory of which had extended from the Punjab to the remote
Assam. He also expressed the feeling that you had seriously disappointed him
by refusing to become a High Court Judge. Sir, I say today, and I think the
house will agree with me, that you stand first in piloting this Constitution
of this country. you have enabled a subject nation- we were still a subject
nation when we started making this Constitution-to become an independent
nation in the course of the proceedings. I hope that though you have once
disappointed Bihar, you will not disappoint the rest of India by refusing the
position of honour and distinction which is justly your due under the new
Constitution.  
I had referred to the serious and sombre speeches which were made by some of
my honourable Friends. But how is it that two important points had escaped
their attention ? These points relate, according to me, firstly to protection
against cows. We have in this Constitution cow protection to some extent but
there is no provision at all for protection against cows. There is also no
provision in this Constitution for protection against women. I should say
protection against women is very essential. You have made some provision in
the Directive Principles for protection of women and children, but you have
entirely failed to take into consideration one very important fact, protection
which is needed against women. I hope this House unanimously accepts the point
which I am making now and regrets equally with me that there has been no
provision in the Constitution for protection against women, and if there is
any dissentient voice, if there is even any dissentient golden voice, let her
come out and protest against this expression of opinion on my part.

**An Honourable Member **: Are you oppressed by women so that you ask for protection against them ?

**Shri Rohini Kumar Chaudhuri : **I would like to develop that point. It is not a new idea with me.

Honourable Members who had the courtesy to listen to my honourable Friend Mr.
Nichols-Roy from Assam must have heard what he said about these cows in Assam.
He said that unless the uneconomical cows at least are allowed to be
slaughtered, they will be a great source of danger. I can amplify his idea and
say that there is really such a danger in Assam because the habit of cow-
keeping is not prevalent in that Province. Cows are brought to the homes only
after they calve; they calve sometimes in the streets and sometimes in the
fields but never in the house of any human being. These cows who roam about
freely for nine or ten months in the year and breed the calves become very
dangerous; they are in a semi-wild condition and they begin to attack and gore
any person who approaches them. Therefore, it is necessary to have some
protection against them. There are also a number of weedy bulls in the
Province of Assam as a result of which the breeds of cows are stunted. If you
allow all this cattle to live as they like without any human care and
attention then really the cows will be a sources of danger and it will be
necessary to protect ourselves against them.  
The idea of protection against women also is not my own idea. My honourable
Friend Dr. Deshmukh had tabled an amendment for removal of the cursed system
of prostitution, but he did not move it. I think Dr. deshmukh felt shy in the
presence of all the ladies here to actually move that amendment, but I think
that was a mistake. We really need protection against women because in every
sphere of life they are now trying to elbow us out. In the offices, in the
legislatures, in the embassies, in everything they try to elbow us out. They
succeed for two reasons : one, our exaggerated sense of courtesy, and then
because of their having some influence in the ear of those persons who have
authority. One good thing there is about this Constitution for which I would
like to congratulate Dr. Ambedkar and that is that he was not insistent on
giving special seats for women. That is at least something saved, some
achievement made. Now, even after seats for women have been abolished, if the
feelings of man are such that he should push them forward. I would very much
regret it. It is not Dr. Ambedkar who is responsible for it. It is the foolish
man who wishes to give them votes and send them to the legislatures and thus
create troubles like the trouble which they have created in the matter of the
Hindu Code.

Now, Sir, I would like to refer to the speech of my Friend Shri L.N. Sahu.
Hearing him one would think that there is nothing in this Constitution worth
looking at. He repeated the language of those who said, and rightly said in
regard to the Government of India Act, that it should not be touched with a
pair of tongs even. That seems to be the idea of my Friend Shri L.N. Sahu. But
may I ask him to push his memory back to the first week of December 1946 ?
What was our position then ? The Muslim League had boycotted the elections and
tried to boycott this Constituent Assembly. It was said that unless the
grouping system was agreed to, the Constituent Assembly will not sit. When the
Muslim League stood out in a body boycotting the Constituent Assembly, there
seemed to be no use proceeding with this Assembly. There was, I remember, a
voice even among the Members of the Constituent Assembly who did not belong to
the Muslim League which said that we should better postpone the Objectives
Resolution, allow the Muslim League Members to come to the House and then
proceed with our work or postpone the sitting of the Constituent Assembly
altogether. That was a very critical moment. If at that moment our leaders had
hesitated and faltered, if our leaders Pandit Nehru and Sardar Patel had
faltered, the hope of acquiring independence at early date would have
completely disappeared. If on the other hand we took our seats as Members of
the Constituent Assembly, if once the Constituent Assembly which is a
sovereign body assembled in session, there was no power on earth which could
obstruct the gaining of independence. In fact it has proved so. Pandit Nehru,
with absolute determination, said "Let whatever happen, let grouping come or
not, let the Constituent Assembly sit and decide the question." When once it
sat the way to independence was clear and open, because whatever Constitution
was made by the Constituent Assembly would be the constitution that will be
enforced. So, Sir, victory in the fight for independence was achieved from the
moment the Constituent Assembly sat. And today we must give all credit to
those statesmen who somehow or other brought about the first meeting of the
Constituent Assembly. Sir, when you remember those days, you remember also
Mahatma Gandhi who had smashed the grouping system. Unfortunately, even the
Congress Working Committee was not in a clear mood on that point. But for
Mahatma Gandhi, and our Premier of Assam, the major provinces of Bengal and
the Punjab and a large area of Assam would have become part of Pakistan. So,
may I ask my honourable Friend Mr. Sahu to ponder over this and see what we
have gained by carrying out the plan for the Constituent Assembly and the
Constitution ? What is the position today under the Constitution and what was
the position the other day wen he was in December 1946 ?

Sir, I had not the honour of listening fully to the speech delivered by my
honourable Friend Mr. Kamath. I think he did not give his whole-hearted
support to the Constitution. I am really very much touched by the recent
activities of my Friend Mr. Kamath. I had undertaken certain responsibilities
on his behalf after completing the work connected with Constitution-making I
am referring to my personal relations with him and his personal life. I am
disappointed with him and I do not know if I will proceed with the work in
connection with which I had given him an assurance. He has of late taken to
saffron-colour robes. You have seen how he is going about in his saffron
colour robes. He has been referring to God at all times. He wants the Assembly
to commence its work with a prayer to God. All those ideas of his have
stupefied me. I am afraid that a time will come, when he is in the spirit in
which he gave up the Indian Civil Service for doing service to the country. It
seems that he will give up worldly life even for the furtherance of his ideas.

**Shri A.V. Thakkar **(Saurashtra) : May I ask how this is relevant to the Constitution ?

**Shri Rohini Kumar Chaudhuri : **Sir, the relevancy is this : We have framed a Constitution for ourselves over which we must rejoice. We have done enough serious work. We must feel happy about this Constitution and when we are happy we should not be gloomy and brooding. I would say in the words of Byron : 'What is writ is writ. Would it we are wiser'. You can not undo what you have done, by making many serious speeches. But for the advice of my honourable Friend Thakkar Bapa I would now be saying something more serious than what serious-minded people could say. After all, Sir, it will not do to be grave and formal always as in the saying 'Can man the solemn owl despise ?' So, I say what is writ is writ. We have drafted this Constitution after considerable pain and anxiety, and that is there. I certainly admit that this Constitution is more detailed than any other Constitution. There is no doubt about that. It is perhaps because that we Indians who have been subject to slavery for so many centuries have faith only in written things and not in oral expressions. Therefore, our Constitution is unlike the English Constitution which is an unwritten constitution, but they too change it whenever there is occasion to do so. In our Constitution we have been more cautious, and put into our Constitution greater details which we could have afforded to leave to the collective experience of our countrymen. Instead of that we have utilised our own collective experience and put in more details into it instead of leaving anything to the future.  
But it need not be supposed for that matter that I have nothing to complain
against in the Constitution. My bitter complaint is that the Constitution is
silent about death sentence. The world is civilised to such an extent now that
the continuance of the death sentence is an act of barbarity. The civilised
world does not want death sentence. The death sentence has no deterrent
effect. I wish we had put in the Constitution that there should be no death
sentence. There is no death sentence as far as I know in the Scandinavian
countries of Norway and Sweden and in some of the States of America. The death
sentence was abolished in Italy but was restored by the Fascist Leader Signor
Mussolini and it is only the Fascist tendency in us which still want us to
have death sentence in this country. Whatever has been done there is a liberal
provision in the Constitution which enables us to revise the Constitution
whenever we consider it fit to do so.  
  
**Mr. President :** Mr. Chaudhuri, you are becoming serious.

**Shri Rohini Kumar Chaudhuri : **I am always serious, Sir, but others take me lightly. For myself, I am always serious, Sir, but I am always misunderstood. Those who have been in prison will bear me out when I say that transportation for life or detention for life is a much greater punishment than the death sentence. Death sentence gives glory to the recipient of that death sentence after the execution of that sentence. That glory should not be given to a criminal. Death sentence whether in non-political cases or political cases gives a sort of added affection from his relatives to the man who has been an ordinary villain, who might not have been remembered because of his villainy, who might have been hated by his family, when he is executed. The relations of the man might feel otherwise that the man has been rightly punished, but the moment the death sentence is executed, the sympathy of his family and friends goes to that criminal. Do you think that crime will be deterred by this sort of punishment ? By this sort of punishment only the praise, the commendation and sympathy of the family goes o the person who has been executed. After all, we are followers of mahatma Gandhi, who had adopted to some extent the teachings of Jesus Christ. You must not take eye for an eye. You must not take a tooth for a tooth. You must not take a life for a life. That should be the feeling of modern India; that should be the feeling of Gandhian India. I think we have made a mistake-which we might correct afterwards-in not abolishing the death sentence by our constitution.  
I would refer to another matter about which I feel strongly. It is about the
Arms Act. The Arms Act against which we fought for so many years under the
British regime still remains on the Statue Book. Why ? Is it because there
have been a multiplicity of crimes, you are not going to have this Arms Act
repealed. Do not consider for one moment that those who want to committee
violence and crime will be deterred for a single moment by your Arms Act. I is
only those who want to protect themselves against robbers and criminals who
will be deterred. It is only these honest men who are prevented from
possessing arms under your Arms Act, and the criminal, the robber and the
murderer would never feel handicapped by your Act, and therefore, Sir, I feel
that it could have been better if we had abolished the Arms Act under this
Constitution.

Then, Sir, there is another matter I would now like to refer to and to which I
have been compelled to refer by the speech delivered by my honourable Friend
Mr. Kher from Bombay, that is with reference to the separation of the
executive and the judiciary ......We have been long crying for the separation
of the judiciary and the executive, but we have made no provision for it in
the Constitution, but I would not complain so much against that because there
is nothing in the Constitution to prevent us from separating the executive and
the judiciary, but I was surprised to find that a distinguished leader, a man
who is responsible for the administration of a major province, _viz._ Bombay,
saying the judiciary are not knight errants and the executive are not all so
many fools or criminals and therefore the separation of the judiciary and the
executive need not be made. It may be that in the executive today we have got
some excellent men who would not tamper with the judiciary, but how can you
guarantee for the future ? As a matter of fact, I consider, Sir, that when
adult franchise is introduced, we must have some sort of protection and that
protection can only be given by an independent judiciary and therefore the
judiciary should be made independent as quickly as possible.

I regret also Sir, in this connection that provision should have been made in
the Constitution for the transfer of the Judges of the High Courts from one
High Court to another. In some cases, these cases may be penal transfers. For
instance, if a High Court Judge from Bombay is transferred to Assam, he would
sooner prefer Port Blair. He would never like the transfer from Bombay to
Assam, or even a transfer from U.P. to Assam. He would consider it a sentence
of transportation for life for almost an uncertain period. What he would do is
that he would try to please the Governor or oblige the President in a way that
would prevent his trasfer to a penal province like Assam or Orissa. There
would also be Judges in Assam or Orissa who would be very glad to pay anything
if they can secure a transfer from Assam or Orissa to the U.P. or Bombay. Now
this method of patronage has been given in this Constitution to the President
and the Governor. This is a new patronage, a new avenue of patronage, a new
method by which even the High Court judges could be brought and by this way
transferred. The old Constitution did not allow such a transfer. The new
Constitution in allowing this transfer is, in my opinion, making a formidable
mistake and it should be our duty to correct that mistake as early as
possible.

(At this stage the President's bell began to ring)

Sir, I was the third person to give my slip here and the old rule applies to
me and not new rules. The old rule is for 20 minutes and the new rules are for
15 minutes. The old rules apply to me.

**Mr. President : **Both together.

**Shri Rohini Kumar Chaudhuri : **Sir, I wish to join my voice with my honourable Friend Mr. Sa'adull in bringing to this House, to the pointed attention of this House the financial condition of our Province. If the situation is allowed to remain as it is, if there is no change immediately made about it, the administration of that Province will be impossible. I have heard that already a collapse is imminent and before the year is out, you will hear that the machinery which is running the Government in Assam will cease to work if for nothing else but for want of funds.  
Sir, the other point which I wish to draw the attention of the House is the
method of administration of justice in the Excluded Areas. What is the method
? The Civil Procedure Code, the Criminal Procedure Code and all the laws which
are applicable to the other Provinces of India will not be enforced in the
Excluded Areas. I would not have troubled over it if I had known that all the
people living in the Excluded Area were as simple as some of the Tribes are.
But some people are most forward and in these hills where people coming from
the rest of India lived and in places like Dimapur and Shillong if these
people are to be treated as Tribals in the matter of administrate of justice,
it would be a great misfortune. I would submit Sir, that there is a provision
in the Constitution that the Governor can make rules for the administration of
justice, he can lay down the law himself. 320 persons are required to frame an
Indian Penal Code or amend an Indian Penal Code or the Criminal procedure Code
or Civil Procedure Code but one single Governor will lay down the law for
administration of justice which will not only be applicable to the tribal
people but will be applicable to the most civilised people of the Punjab or
Bomaby or Bengal. Is it not a misfortune, Sir ? Would it not have been better
to say that all laws should be applicable there subject to such modifications
as could be made by existing conditions. So, Sir, with these words I close. if
I have not thanked anybody, it is not that I have forgotten them but the
heartiest thanks are due to that dear Doctor of human ailments as well as of
Political malady, _viz.,_ Dr. Pattabhi Sitaramayya, who has practically forged
this Constitution in our party behind the screen.

**Shrimati Hansa Mehta **(Bombay : General) : Mr. president, Sir, it is with a sigh of relief that we have come to our journey's end. I wish we had taken less time to cover this journey. Time is of the essence of things and once the psychological moment is past, the thing however good loses interest and so it has become with the Constitution. On the floor of this House and even outside questions have been asked whether the Constitution is good and how long it is going to last. It is very difficult to reply to this question. The goodness or badness of a Constitution depends on how it is going to work. If it works in the interests of the people, it will be a good Constitution; if it works otherwise, it will be a bad Constitution. It is for the future electors to elect the right kind of persons, who will work the Constitution in the interests of the people. The responsibility, therefore, lies with the people. One thing, however, I would like to observe and that is in the circumstances in which we were placed, we could not have produced anything better. With such divergent views in the Assembly, it is indeed a miracle that we have achieved this measure of agreement. At one extreme we had Seth Govind Das, the champion of the underdog, and in-between we had many variations; the last speaker would supply a good example.  
In spite of all that and in spite of all the many complicated problems that we
had to tackle, I feel that we have not done badly. The most difficult problem
that we had to tackle was the problem of Minorities. Nowhere in the
Constitution we have defined 'Minorities'. We accepted the definition that was
given to us by the last Rulers. They created religious minorities, communal
minorities in order to help their policy of divide and rule and that policy
has culminated in the partition of this country. We do not want any more
partions. What do the minorities what ? What can be their claims ? The
Constitution guarantees equal protection of law, equality of status, equality
of opportunity; the Constitution guarantees religious rights. What more can
the Minorities ask for ? If they want privileges, that is not in the spirit of
democracy. They cannot ask for privileges. The only exception, however, I
would like to make is in the case of the Scheduled Castes. They have suffered
and suffered long at the hands of the Hindu society and any exception in their
case would be making amends to what they have suffered. In this connection,
the abolition of untouchability is the greatest thing that we have done and
posterity will be very proud of this.

While discussing this question in the Fundamental Rights Committee, we also
raised another point. We were anxious to consider the abolition of purdah. It
is an inhuman custom which still exists in parts of India. Unfortunately we
were told that raising this question will hurt the religious susceptibilities
of some people. As for as the Hindu religion is concerned, it does not enjoin
purdah. Islam does. But, I feel that Islam will be better rid of this evil.
Any evil practised in the name of religion cannot be guaranteed by the
Constitution and I hope that our Muslim friends will remember that if now,
later on, this question is bound to come up before the legislatures.  
While the chapter on Fundamental Rights is a most important chapter, the
chapter that follows, the chapter on Directive Principles of States policy is,
also to mind a very important chapter. In this chapter, I would like to draw
the attention of this House to two items. The first is prohibition. A
reference was made the other day by the Premier of Bombay that what they are
doing is according to the Constitution. I would like to draw a distinction
here. Gandhi's name has been associated with the policy of prohibition. But,
what Gandhiji desired was that the State should not manufacture liquor, nor
should the State sell it and that public bars should also be closed so that
there may be no temptation for those who are susceptible to drinking. But, I
do not think that Gandhihji ever desired that we should raise an army of
police. Gandhiji never desired that we should spend good money on police. We
are prepared to forego the tainted income; but is there any reason why lakhs
and lakhs of good money should be spent on excise police ? It will only add
one more source of corruption, and we have enough of corruption in this
country. Another thing, it will perpetuate the sales tax and people who are
already burdened with taxes are groaning under the sales tax. I therefore wish
to make this distinction that while endorsing the prohibition policy in this
Constitution, it does not mean that we agree with the method of introducing
prohibition in the various provinces today.

The other item to which I wish to draw the attention of the House is the
Common civil Code. To my mind this is much more important than even the
national language. We have too many personal laws in this country and these
personal laws are dividing the nation today. It is therefore very essential if
we want to build up one nation to have one Civil Code. It must, however, be
remembered that the Civil Code that we wish to have must be on a par with, or
in advance of, the most progressive of the personal laws in the country.
Otherwise, it will be a retrograde step and it will not be acceptable to all.

The world would have thought very little of the men if they had asked for
protection against women in this Constitution; I am very happy to see that the
Constitution does not include that provision. Otherwise men would have had to
hide their faces before the world.

Sir, I have felt it a very great privilege to have been associated with he
making of the Constitution of free India. I hope and pray that the
Constitution fulfils the expectations raised by the Resolution moved in this
House by our Prime Minister three years ago and passed, and which forms now
the body of the preamble. It is only in the fulfilment of that promise that
this country will rise to its pristine glory.

**Shri Lokanath Misra** **: **Mr. President, Sir, it is a regret for me that my contribution to this Constitution has been so small that even our President who has been fair and good to everybody does not know my name.

**Mr. President**: I am sorry.

**Shri Lokanath Misra** That really indicates that I have not proved my worth. I am sorry for it and I do blame my President. But, then, Sir, I must say, as a matter of duty what are my reactions to this Constitution which we are going to give to the country for unborn generations to come.

It is my view and so it may be that this, our Constitution Act will go as a
great civilized document of the modern world. But I would not like to indulge
in any kind of self-praise, praise either for the Drafting Committee or for
the honourable Members or for our honourable President or for anybody else.
The reasons is, we have only done our duty, as best as we could and it is for
the people to judge our labours. In fact, the test of the pudding is in the
eating and when people will be eating it, they will know how it is tasting.
Even, if it tastes, well, there will still be ground for complaint if it does
not give us health and gives only good taste. Therefore, without eulogising
ourselves, without praising ourselves, I must say that it has apparently begun
with lofty words, but vial ideal, it promises to give us justice, liberty,
equality and fraternity, securing the dignity of the individual and the units
of the nation. But the individual ! the Nation!

Friends have already said that due to the magic wand of Sardar Patel, India
has now become united politically and perhaps geographically. But, I do not
find anywhere in this Constitution what is that nation, what is the
individual, what is the individuality of the Indian nation that makes India
India, that we are going to nurse. I do not find anywhere in this Constitution
the individuality of India that makes it different from the other nations. I
do not anywhere see in this Constitution what is the individual, his destiny
and his purushartha for which he nation will be striving, for which the
individual, the family, the country would be striving.

When we go to the Fundamental Rights, we find one thing; whatever they may be
professing in practice they will not give the desired result. They promise
liberty, equality. I should say when we think in terms of equality of sex and
its liberty one thing comes to my mind. If unfortunately on the emergence of
the new woman, women claim freedom and equality in all respects with men and
thereby becomes competitors and rivals to men, I am sure there will be an end
of our civilisation on which we have been living all these years. I beg to say
that India certainly has an individuality of its own. Gandhiji was saying that
India has a mission for the world and it is for the fulfilment of that mission
that he was living. If India forsakes that mission, my place will not be here.
Now, I put to this House what is that individuality of the Indian Nation that
we are going to build and give to the world, a message that will be our gift
to the world civilisation. I beg to say that we have simply followed suit.
Instead of calling this an Indian Constitution, I would call it an Anglo
American Constitution Act for India. That is the proper name.

We have given adult suffrage - that sounds well but this sudden and direct
application of adult suffrage is to harm to those very people who are going to
exercise that suffrage. For instance, there will be about 20 crores of people
voting at the general elections. At present they do not know what they are
going to vote for, and they will simply be having their right. There will be
different parties, rivals in the elections, who will be going to people and
saying ' we will give this or that do not vote for them and vote for us'. That
will simply engender in them a sense of right without a sense of duty and they
will vote and be voting for a certain party which will never be in a position
to deliver all the goods . Their appetites will only be whipped up. It can
lead only to chaos and to no healthy growth. I therefore say that our adoption
of the Party Government of England can do more harm than good as at present.
But let us hope that our statesmen and our leaders will be responsible enough
to educate the people in such a manner that best use may be made of this great
leap.

I think as many friends especially the honourable Mr. Prakasam said, our
Constitution could have been genuine only if we had built it on the solid
foundation of panchayat raj which is still in our veins and still favoured by
our people. That would have given us little democracies and enabled people who
will be democrates to exercise their rights with a responsibility and with
zeal and also with joy. But now under this Constitution, there will be two
classes, a new ruling class at the helm of affairs and at the bottom there
will be the common man exercising a vote once in five years. In the middle the
middle classes will be crushed entirely and I would say if the middle class is
crushed, the entire intelligentsia of the country will be crushed and then we
will not known what is the future of the country.

Let us take another article of Fundamental Rights - article 31 relating to
properties. Now in the whole Constitution this is perhaps the most absurd
article. _Prima facie_ this article says what is not justiciable upto 26th
January 1950 will be justiciable afterwards. Supposing for instance the U.P.
Bill now pending or the Bihar Bill now pending before the commencement of this
Constitution Act is passed after the Constitution is passed, the provisions of
that Act, under this Article will not be justiciable but if that same Bill or
most of the clauses of it are incorporated in a Bill before the Legislative
Assembly of Orissa, after the commencement of this Constitution and if that is
passed, that might be justiciable . I do not understand how what is the
justiciable now can be justiciable afterwards. And then again look at sub-
clause (6). Whatever has been passed within 18 months before the commencement
of this Constitution will not be justiciable and whatever was passed beyond 18
months will be justiciable. This discriminative provision is quite out of
place in a Constitution, particularly on the Chapter of Fundamental Rights.
Then again we do not say here what is the definition of property, what is
possession and acquisition and what is 'public purpose'. For instance in
Orissa our Land Revenue and Land Tenure Committee has come to the conclusion
that abolition of zamindari does not involve any taking of possession or
acquisition for public purposes. The reason is, every zamindar has two rights
- the right to collect rent and the right to cultivate his own private lands.
Suppose we leave his private lands to him and take away the right to collect
rent, what property is he going to lose for which he will be recompensed? And
suppose we abolish entirely feudalism, we abolish land revenue and instead we
raise some tax, what is there to say that there is some property which is
being confiscated or expropriated for which there will be compensation? These
are anomalies we have chosen to bring in for nothing. It would have been
enough if we had only article 31 clause (1) and nothing else. These will bring
unnecessary conflicts and I think I am not blaming anybody a spirit of undue
compromise has been responsible for enacting this article and this gives a
clue to the very mind that has been actuating all things in framing this
Constitution.

I, therefore, submit that this Constitution has been framed to please as many
as possible but it has been a medley of ideas and ideologies and I think there
is no coherent, genuine substance behind it which can hold us on. The reason
is simply this. We have been so much imbued with modern ideas - ideas with
which we have been spoon-fed for years, that we have forgotten ourselves. Is
there nothing genuine in this land which could be the solid foundation for our
future Constitution? If you want to go in for a civilization which has not
been tested in our land, and which is still on its trial, I think we are going
to undo everything real and I do not know what the future will bring us to.
Now, Sir, we have given adult suffrage. Well and good. After having done that,
it is my submission that we should have raised the age of people who would be
seeking election. In my view for the lower House it should have been not less
than 30 and for the Upper House not less than 35\. In that case we have
somehow brought control over these matters and brought sense to our people.

Then again we should have given high rigid qualification for people who would
be coming to Legislatures. We know what is in store for us. We know that this
Constitution is founded on a Parliamentary System and any parliamentary system
is founded on the members who will form the Parliament. If those members are
not sober, honest, wise and able, I think the whole system of Parliamentary
democracy will go down. But as I see, this Parliamentary system will go wrong
for the simple reason that we have not given a rigid qualification for those
people who will be taking this great responsibility. We should have advised
rigid qualification for members, honest people, people not exploiting people,
not encouraging black-markets and people who command confidence and selfless
devotion. But shall we immediately see clash of interests, competition and no
corporate existence? The result would then be that in the name of
Parliamentary democracy, there will be chaos.

Now, Sir, a word about centralisation. We have, now in the name of a strong
State, so centralised power, that I am afraid, due to its very weight, the
Centre is likely to break. However good Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru may be, and
however good Sardar Vallabhbahi Patel may be, they are more distant from me
than is my home in Puri from Delhi. It is not possible for me to talk to them
as my own man. In actual life, in fact, it is my family, my village, my
district and my province, thus we go. And now think in terms of India in a
great leap is simply absurd. In certain spheres, it might be good to
centralise. But we have so empowered the Centre, and we have made the
Provinces so powerless that in fact, I am afraid, there will be no initiative
in the provincial legislatures or even in the provincial Ministers. In fact,
this Constitution really tends to make the people irresponsible, and simply
remain content with voting once in five years, and caring only for the Centre
and cajoling the people in power at the Centre for this and that advantage. In
this way, we have made this irresponsible Constitution in the hope of giving
responsible government to our people.

With these words, Sir, I say that with great honesty and great labour and with
the best of intentions, we have passed this Constitution, and it is for us now
to see what shape it will take in practical working and it will be our bounden
duty to maintain this Constitution, and to educate the people in the lines of
this Constitution. That is a great task and I hope our country will be equal
to that task, and that our leaders at the Centre will be equal to that task,
because if they go wrong, the Centre is so strong that the nation will go
wrong, and to me it seems there is more chance of going wrong than of going
right. Jai Hind.

**Mr. President: **The House stands adjourned till three o'clock.

The Assembly then adjourned for Lunch till Three P. M.

> \---------------------

The Assembly reassembled at Three P. M. after Lunch, Mr. President( The
Honourable Dr. Rajendra Prasad ) in the Chair.

> \----------------------

**Shri Jadubans Sahay **** **( Bihar. General ): Sir, much has been said regarding the different aspects of this Constitution. I for myself do not agree with those who have shown a spirit of despair and disappointment over this Constitution as a whole. I think, Sir, we have nothing to grieve over what we have done. It is only an exhaustion of spirit which has been shown by some of the Members when they have criticised this Draft Constitution out and out.

The fact is that we are a nation born new and we have to learn the arts of
democracy. The lessons of democracy are not taught in any book, but they have
got to be developed. It all depends upon the character of a nation, the
integrity, the honesty, our love for democratic principles and our zeal to
pursue and follow them which can make or mar a constitution. The Constitution
of a country does not depend upon the cold letters, however, beautifully or
brilliantly printed in a book. It depends for its growth and development upon
the character of a nation. It is the soil - the character of a nation - upon
which the seeds of Constitution have got to germinate. If the soil is rocky or
barren, then certainly howsoever good the Constitution might be and in
howsoever grand language it may be worded, it is sure that the Constitution
can not lead us to our goal. But I have faith, Sir, in the innate genius of
our country. I have faith also in the coming generation of tomorrow and we
have nothing to despair over what we have done. I think that no amount go
guarantees in the Constitution or the filling up of the omissions mentioned
will carry us to the goal. It depends upon those who work the Constitution. It
depends on how we develop the spirit of tolerance and not on the constitution
or the letter of the law. It depends on the spirit of love towards those that
are down-trodden and those who call themselves minorities. We may enact in the
Constitution that untouchability is abolished in every hearth and home but
that carries us nowhere. You should have love and sympathy for what we call
the have nots. It does not depend on he Constitution or its articles. It
depends upon our own character, our own vitality as a nation.

It am not one of those who share a feeling of disappointment and so I shall
approach the Constitution with a dispassionate mind and touch on one or two
points and no more.

We had our struggle for freedom and we have won the independence of the
country. But it is political independence or political freedom. The
predominant slogan for 25 or 30 years from the lips of every patriot, every
soldier of freedom was the elimination of British rule. The economic slogan
was not there. British rule has been eliminated and political sovereignty has
been won. Therefore, in the Preamble of the Constitution we are going to
declare that India is an Independent Sovereign Republic. Even though we are
going to declare it on the 26th January we are already recognised by the
nations of the world as such. During the last 30 years the struggle for
economic democracy was not in the forefront and the result is that even in the
Constitution we have glimpses of the challenge to the economic structure of
society. The economic structure of society as it existed hitherto will exist
hereafter and there comes the clash. There is today a crisis in our country.
There is crisis in agricultural production, there is crisis in the production
of industrial goods and we have not been able to solve it. We are taking all
the measures we can and yet they are not bringing results as speedily as we
want. What is the cause ? The cause is something which challenges the economic
basis of our society and demands a radical change.

There is the property clause No. 31 in the revised Constitution. You will
excuse me if I say that it is a hesitant, vacillating and insipid approach to
the vast problem facing us. On one side in China, Burma and other countries'
subversive forces, alien to the genius of this country, are knocking at our
doors and coming like an avalanche. Communism will flourish and it will
flourish in Burma. How are we going to tackle it? We are out to abolish the
zamindari system. In article 31 we find that the advantage which we have
reluctantly given to provinces like Bihar, U.P. and Madras can not be shared
by Bengal, possibly Assam and Orissa also. These provinces have not been able
to bring a bill in their assemblies till now. Do we think that we can
challenge Communism in this way? Communism can not be crushed by bullets,
neither by our military nor police. It has to be tackled in a different way.
The root cause has to be diagnosed. The disease lies in the discontent of the
oppressed and hungry millions of the country. We hear of bombs, bullets, acid
bulbs and the burning of tramcars in Bengal. The Bengal Government is for the
time being engaged in her domestic problems. They have not been able to bring
any Bill for the abolition of feudalism in their province. After the 26th
January they will be deprived of the benefit which we have given in clauses
(4) and (6) of article 33 of the Constitution. Not only in Calcutta and other
big towns but we find communist influence growing in the rural areas also. It
is there among the Sanathals, the aborigines and the kisans. They are all
becoming victims to the Communist slogans and propaganda. You can not stop it
by sending the police to the villages. In the very nature of things it is
impossible. In the Constitution we have tried to approach this problem in an
insipid manner. There is a clash of ideology. There are two schools of thought
clashing with each other, one trying to maintain the old economic structure of
society and stabilise it and the other trying to destroy it and reshape
society on a new economic basis. I would invite attention to article 31 which
is a compromise formula born out of the tug-of-war between the two schools of
thought. We have not been able to touch other interests than agricultural
interest. Even the zamindari or feudal interest has been touched in a very
lukewarm manner. The economic structure of a country is responsible for its
political development. On one side we are going to give adult franchise to the
vast millions of our countrymen. We are going to clothe them with political
power - those who do not have two square meals a day and those who are almost
beggars in the streets, and those who remain unemployed for nine months in a
year; on the other hand you are going to stabilise the present economic
structure of society. You want to maintain the status quo. Here is a problem
which won political freedom and which shaped to a very great extent the
Constitution of the country, if we run away from the problem, the problem is
not going to run away from us and it will pass into the hands of others for
solution. It will be solved by those who will bring in foreign slogans and a
foreign sphere of influence into the country. Are we going to leave the
solution of that problem, to them? It is a challenge which we have not been
able to answer in this Constitution.

But I will not harp on this point because the Preamble is enough guarantee if
we want to work the Constitution honestly, vigorously and with integrity. It
is enough guarantee for those who are down-trodden, for the kisans, for the
labourers and for the mazdoors. If we do not work it in the proper spirit,
then what is meant by economic justice ? What is economic justice to a man who
has not enough food to eat, who has not an anna in his pocket? You will say he
has got the right to stand for Parliament. Is that economic justice? It is a
farce. You will say that your schools and colleges shall be open to all the
sons of Kisans and mazdoors. Is it giving them education? How many sons of
kisans and labourers are there in the science colleges of the different
Universities ? Very few. So, it is a farce. Let us not in this age, when
practical problems demand solution at our hands, run away from the realities
of life. Times are changing and we have got to adapt ourselves. The greatest
virtue of the Congress was this' and it was the greatest virtue of the Father
of the Nation also, that he used to adapt himself or rather he used to keep
his fingers on the pulse of the time and when he found that we were fit for
such and such a thing he used to dictate the remedies to us. But what are we
doing today? We are in an economic deadlock with devaluation, export and
import questions and the problem of Produce more or perish' facing us. We are
appealing to the industrial magnates for their generosity and charity in
connection with the sugar scandal.

I would have been glad if we had incorporated in the Constitution at least the
hope of a classless society for the people of this country. it is not a
socialistic thing, it is not born out of the philosophy of Marx. They were the
very words said by Mahatma Gandhi. If he had been alive today he would have
practised and brought it to reality. Sir, some people run away from the idea
of this classless society and say that it is a thing which the Socialists and
the Communists proclaim and that therefore we should not touch it. But no, it
is rather the voice of those who have got vested interests in this country. It
is the voice of those who want to keep down the millions of this country.
Mahatma Gandhi who was the greatest lover of the down-trodden not only in
India but over the whole world had clearly said that India wanted a classless
society. But what are we doing today? What to say of a classless society, even
the words nationalisation of property are not there either in the Fundamental
Rights or in the Directive Principles. What does are there for the millions in
this country? The only hope is that our leadership in this country certainly
is very sound and is sensitive to public opinion and I have every hope that if
we try, under this Constitution we can do all those things, we can bring about
a classless society, we can bring hope to the doors of the teeming millions,
we can bring solace to their huts and homes. All this we can do out of this
Constitution if we proceed honestly, if we proceed with the knowledge that
democracy does not mean anything if it does not mean economic democracy.
Democracy of the few, of the few edcuated persons, who live in the houses of
Delhi and who come from the various Provinces, is no democracy at all. Real
democracy means that we are the servants of the people, the real
representatives of the people. Let us say that this is the greatest experiment
in the history of India because this type of democracy did not exist before
however much you quote the Shastras and the Puranas. This greatest experiment
will fail not because of this Constitution but because those of us who have
been charged by destiny to represent those who are not here, those who are
hundreds of miles away from us do not really represent them.

With these words, Sir, I will again say that the success of a constitution
depends upon not only those who work the constitution but also upon those for
whom it is worked. This Constitution is a real of our national character and I
hope that we will do nothing to hang our heads down in shame.

A lot has been said about civil liberties and such like things. I am not
concerned with those things. Civil liberty in the abstract sense does not
appeal to me. If the country does not exist, where is the civil liberty? What
we find today is a handful of persons trying to misguide people. We call them
communists and we call them by other names but they try to misguide a large
number of the people of this couantry. Fighting for civil liberties at this
stage will be endangering the very life of the state. We have got various
problems knocking at our doors, some from Pakistan, others from the Western
world. At this stage civil liberties of the type envisaged by jurists and
written in the books which we have read in the colleges will not do for this
country. If the educated people want to have civil liberties of the best type,
they will have them in spite of the hedges grown around by this Constitution.
The sedition law was there but it was changed in course of time. A few words
said twenty-five years agao used to come under the sedition Act, but in 1942
even the Quit India slogans and all the other criticisms were nto consdered
seditious. So, it does not depend upon the cold letters of a book, it depends
on the growth of a nation, upon its ability to grow and overcome all these
diseases. So, I am not very much apprehensive about the civil liberties about
which so much has been said.

I have only one more thing to say and it is about the Provinces. It is all
right to have the political power in the Centre, but the Provinces, at least
those agriculturally backward Provinces like Bihar, C.P., Assam and Orissa
where the seeds of Communism can grow at any time, have been robbed I will say
you will excuse me for saying so, Sir, of a very large portion of the income
which they used to have at least from the sales tax. We find in the
Constitution guaranteeing the freedom of trade, freedom of commerce and other
things in order to sanctify and perpetuate the existing economic structure of
society. In matters of sales tax we find that the Province have been deprived
of their due share of collection. The benefit has not gone to the Centre but
given to the middle class who try to purchase a things and sell it at another
place. Take the case of Bihar. We will lose more than Rs. 2 crores by this
amendment relating to sales tax. You want to have a welfare State, not a
police State because police states will not do in these days. If you want to
have a welfare State, if you want to have schools and colleges and education
for the children of the mazdoors and kisans and the down-trodden, hospitals
and medicines for them where will the money come from? You will have to run to
the Provinces for that. But their budgetary position will be uncertain, the
budgets of these Provinces can not be framed with any amount of certainty.
These financial difficulties for the provinces should not have been created.
They should be allowed to be economically free, free to raise money at least
from sales tax so that they can function as a welfare state.

Sir, with these words, I again commend this Constitution for the acceptance of
the House.

**Shri Gopal Narain** (United Provinces: General): Mr. President, Sir, during the last three years when the Constitution was on the anvil I remained a calm and silent observer except twice when I broke the monotony. But at this final and Third Reading stage I wish to record my views plainly, openly and courageously.

At the outset I congratulate Dr. Ambedkar, the Chairman of the Drafting
Committee and the members thereof for producing such a voluminous Constitution
in which nothing has been left out. Even the price control has been included
in it. I venture to think that if they had the tine they would have even
prescribed a code of life in this Constitution. A word more for Dr. Ambedkar,
Sir. There is no doubt he is lucidity and clarity personified. He has made a
name for himself.

Some months back the Honourable Shri Sampurnanand, who came here in connection
with a conference asked for my opinion about this Constitution. I had told him
plainly that it was more or less based on the Government of India Act, 1935
with certain additions taken from the Constitutions of America, Canada, etc.
Taking that cue, he has described this Constitution in his convocation Address
to the Agra University as a Scissors and paste affair. I fully agre with him.
But I do not agree with my Friend Seth Damodar Swarup who has called this
Constitution as a Constitution for jagirdas and capitalists. My opinion of
this Constitution is that it does not come up to our standard. It does not
even touch the mark. Those Congressmen who ahve been fighting the battle of
freedom for the last thirty years.

**Shri Jaspat Roy Rapoor **( United Provinces: General) We wish you had given us a timely warning.

**Shri Gopal Naraian: **I was calmly listening when Shri Jaspat Roy Kapoor was delivering his speech. I never interrupted him. I hope he too will not interrupt me. I know more of the Congress than Shri Kapoor. I was saying that this Constitution does not come up tothe mark. Those Congressmen who have been fighting the battle of freedom for the last thirty years had a different picture in their minds. They envisaged something different. It has not come up to their expectation.

There is no doubt there are some good points in it. There is bound to be some
good points in a voluminous text. I shall refer to them presently. Certainly
they have done away with separate electorates. They have included adult
franchise. They have also included prohibition. These are very good points no
doubt. Also certain amenities have been provided for the backward classes.
Their status has been raised. I congratulate the members of the Drafting
Committee for providing these good things. These are very good points in the
Constitution. But there are certain bad points also.

Articles 21 and 31 are instances of bad points. Article 21 which concerns the
life of a man has been made non justiciable while the right to private
property has been made justiciable. These are very bad points that have been
included in the Constitution.

One more point I want to emphasise. There has been over-centralisation. The
local legislatures have been reduced to the status of local bodies,
municipalities, local boards and the like and, as a necessary corollary, the
provincial legislatures will turn the local boards and municipalities to
nullity. Though Panchayats have been given some powers, I fear they will not
have any scope for working. This, in my opinion is not good.

One more point I wish to stress. There is no room in this Constitution for
amalgamation at some future date of this divided India. The doors have been
barred and baged against such a possibioity by the adoption of Hindi as the
official language. This bangs the door against Western Pakistan amalgamating
with our country. Though this has been done, let us hope that Hindi will be
much that it will have some room for this amalgamation at some future date.
Otherwise there is no room in this Constitution for the amalgamation of the
two countries. This is a very bad aspect of this Constitution.

In conclusion, Sir, I congratulate you for so ably conducting the proceedings
of this Assembly. You have been very accommodative . You have not given any
Member a chance to say a word against you. I conclude.

**Shri Ajit Prasad Jain** (United Provinces: General): Mr. President, Sir, it is but once in life that a nation decides to give a Constitution unto itself, and we who have participated in framing this Constitution have a good reason to be proud of our lot. In the history of India there have been periods of greatness and glory, there have been periods of great empires and expansion and of benevolent and good kings, but never did we have Constitution framed by the people for the people. Before proceeding further it is necessary that we offer our thanks to Dr. Ambedkar and the Drafting Committee who have sat day after they incessantly and worked hard.

About three years ago this Constituent Assembly started to function under very
different conditions than those of today. India was then undivided, but the
Muslim League which was then a rival political party of the Congress had
refused to participate in constitution making. Everybody was asking, "Could we
frame a Constitution with the Muslims absent almost _en bloc_ ?" Then came the
Partition which we had to accept with a heavy heart. None among us can be
happy with a partition of the country, but nevertheless it must be admitted
that this has smoothened our work of constitution making. In particular the
question of minorities which had been our headache and which thwarted all our
efforts for the solution of national problems has ceased to be a live issue.
Maybe that we have not so far succeeded in establishing a fully united and
harmonious society, but much of the old rancour has disappeared and we are on
the path of achieving a real national unity.

The Constitution which we have framed cannot be, on the political or economic
side, said to be a revolutionary measure. It has not only accepted the general
framework of the Government of India Act of 1935 and repeated its phraseology,
but it has continued the old laws and institutions. All the laws in force
immediately before the commencement of this Constitution except those which
come in conflict with the Fundamental Rights enumerated in Chapter III, shall
continue to be laws under the new Constitution. The Federal Court will
function under the new name of Supreme Court with some additional jurisdiction
which had hitherto vested the Privy Council. The Judges of the Federal Court
will become the Judges of the Supreme Court and the provincial High Courts and
their judges of the Supreme Court and the Provincial High Courts and theri
judges will be the High Court and High Court Judges in the corresponding
States. The Advocate General, the Comptroller and Auditor General shall
perform the same functions and be the same persons as were discharging those
functions before the new Constitution. The Federatl and the State Public
Service Commissions will have the same personnel and essentially the same
constitution. The services appointed by the Secretary of the State or the
Secretary of State in Council under the Government of India Act shall under
section 314 " be entitled to receive from the Government of India and the
Government of the State, which they are from time to time serving, the same
rights as respects disciplinary matters or rights as similar thereto as
changed circumstances may permit as that person was entitled to immediately
before such commencement". Thus, it will be seen that it is not even the case
of pouring old wine into new bottles, but of old wine and old bottles. Both
the laws and the administrative machinery, under the new dispensation will not
be much different than the old.

Economically one has to look to article 31 of the Fundamental Rights. It says,
" No person shall be deprived of his property save the authority of law and
that no movable or immovable property.......................shall be taken
possession of or acquired for public purposes..........under the law provided
for compensation for property taken possession of or acquired". Except for the
exception provided in the case of zamindari rights in certain provinces and a
few other comparatively minor changes this article reproduces section 299 of
the Government of India Act. It maintains the capitalistic structure of
society with its inequalities of wealth and income. Perhaps under the existing
state of our economic plight much of it is inevitable but in the ultimate
analysis this state of affairs cannot continue for long. As the Honourable Mr.
Gadgil said the other day, we shall have to make a fundamental change in the
Constitution of our society. We shall have to nationalise many industries
which today are held by private enterprise. Without that, there cannot be any
solution of our economic problems of national well-being.

Sir, the Britishers had left us in a highly precarious condition. Overnight on
the 15th August 1947 mroe than five hundred Indian Princes, big and small,
became their Majesties. Travancore and Bhopal were showing truculence.
Junagadh had acceded against the wishes of the people with Pakistan and
Hyderabad adopted an attitude which might well be termed hostile towards us.
Under these condition, the spectre of disunity which has beean a remarkable
feature of our history, as also the history of many other Asian countries, was
staring us in the face. It is no small achievement that within the breif space
of less than two and a half years we ahve attained complete geographical
unity, the Indian States disappearing as political units. A glance at Part B
of the First Schedule will show that what was formerly known as Indian India,
and divided into more than 500 States, has been transformed into nine States,
Chapter VII, in my opinion, is the brightest feature of this Constitution as
it places the States constituted of the old Princely India _pari passu_ with
the States in Part A which represents the Indian provinces. Nevertheless, we
should not forget that what we seem to have achieved thereby appears more on
paper.

I have said that mostly the new Constitution is not much of a departure from
the existing Constitution, but in some respects it has inaugurated what may be
rightly called a revolutionary era. In future every adult,, man and woman, who
has attained the age of twenty-one shall enjoy full and equal franchise. Our
political institutions, Parliament and Legislatures of States, will be elected
on the basis of adult franchise. This indeed is revolutionary. We are going to
have the brightest electorate in the world, bigger than than of the USA, and
USSR . Such an experiment can not be free from danger but let us hope that
with the intimitable leadership which India possesses, we shall stear clear
the ship of the State.

In Part II, which defines citizenship, all persons born in India or who are_
bona fide_ residents of India or who have migrated from Pakistan and made
India theri home ahve been given equal recognition as citizens without
distinction of religion, race, caste or class. Citizenship constitutes the
rock foundation of our Constitution. All the rights in the Constitution are
equally guaranteed to all citizens. Every citizen of India shall have the
right to freedom of speech and expression to assemble peacefully and without
arms to form associations and unions, to move, settle and acquire property in
any part of India and to practise any profession or trade or business. It must
be admitted that these rights to freedom are fundamentally restricted by
certain clauses that follow. For instance, the right to assemble peacefully
and without arms is restricted by that infamous section 144 of the Criminal
Procedure Code. It is bad but perhaps not too bad to have this kind of
restrictions until we the citizens of India have learnt the virtues of self-
control which flow fromt he exericse of true freedom. Nevertheless our success
will be judged not by the frequent use of these restrictions but by the
infrequency with whichw e make use of these section.

Every person has also been given a guarantee of equality before the law. No
person shall be deprived of his life and property except according to the
procedure laid down by law. There is a provision for preventive detention,
perhaps it is a necessary evil under the present conditions, but I must repeat
again that our success will be judged by the infrequency with which we use
this provision for preventive detention.

Our Constitution provides that there shall be no discrimination against any
citizen on the ground of sex. Women have been given equal rights with men to
get services and offices under the State and no one shall be debarred from
employment or office on the ground of religion, race, sex, or descent. It is
one of Directive Principles of State Policy to secure equal pay for equal work
for both men and women. In our history there have been women who have attained
glory and greatness, sometimes, outshining men, but there was never a formal
recognition of the equality between men and women in the sense that this
Constitution has established. Untouchability, which has disfigured the entire
history of thousands of years of this country, has been abolished and its
practice in any form has been forbidden. It has been declared a penal offence.
Everybody has been guaranteed equal rights of access to shops, public
restaurants, places of public entertainments and to the use of tanks, bathing
ghats, and places of  public resort. We have already achieved reasonable
success in removing untouchability under the inspiring leadership of the
Father of the Nation and these provisions in the Fundamental Rights will
accelerate that process. But untouchability is essentially an economic
disease. In order that those who have been left behind in social and economic
matters, more perhaps on account of the oppression by others, may come up to
the general level, the Scheduled Classes, Scheduled Tribes, and other backward
classes, Scheduled Tribes, and other backward classes have been given
reservation of seats in Parliament and Legislatures of States and Services
until they attain a status equal to others. This protection will in the first
instance extend to ten years.

The question of minorities has been another difficult and perplexing question
for us. In future no minorities shall be recognised either for reservation of
seats in the Legislature of Services excpet the Scheduled Classes. Scheduled
Tribes and other backward classes, which again is not a concession bases on
religion or caste but on the comparative backwardness of those people. The
minorities have been guaranteed freedom of religion and freedom to develop
their culture, language and script, but in matters of political rights, there
is no discrimination either in their favour or against them,. The minorities
therefore should have nothing to fear or be apprehensive about their future.
It is in that sense that we have established what is popularly known as a
secular State.

The Fundamental Rights guaranteed in the Constitution are mostly justifiable,
that is, any person who feels aggrieved can have resort to a Court of Law. But
it is not always easy to go to law courts, and I am not sure whether the
spirit which has inspired the Britishers to preserve the rights and privileges
secured under Magna Carta, actually informs our people. External vigilance is
price of liberty which nations as well as individuals have to pay. And,
therefore, the responsibility of the State is even greater in our case. It
must in practise secure for our citizens rights conferred upon them by law.

A great achievement of this Constitution is the agreement on the question of
language. India has for ages been a multi-lingual country with 13 or 14 major
languages and numerous minor ones, some having the scripts and others none.
Under the British rule our languages had been neglected and English was forced
upon us. In free India English could have no place, but to come to a common
agreement about one language and one script all at once was not an easy
matter. Fortunately for ourselves, we have arrived at what may be termed to be
a happy compromise. Hindi and Devanagari script shall be theState language of
India but for the first fifteen years English shall enjoy a privileged place
and be the State language for official purposes of the Union for which it was
being used immediately before the commencement of the Constitution. Power has,
however, been given to the President to authorise the use of Hindi language in
addition to English language for any official purpose of the Union even before
the expiry of fifteen years. Article 351 provides that " it shall be the duty
of the Union to promote the spread of the Hindi language, to develop it so
that it may serve as a medium of expression for all the elements of the
composite cutlure of India and to secure its enrichment for all the elements
of the composite culture of India and to secure its enrichment by assimilating
without interfering with its genius, the forms, style and expressions uised in
Hindustani and in the other languages of India specified in the Eighth
Schedule ". The law about language thus laid down is elastic and it will
depend upon our efforts as to how soon or how late within these fifteeen years
English is repalced by Hindi. But now that we have taken a decision to
substitute Hindi for English the sooner we do it the better. Yet we must be
cautious that those who speak languages other than the languages of Sanskritic
origin should have no feeling of oppression or depression, for Hindi will
thereby suffer more at the hands of its supporters than others. Hindi has come
by the goodwill of all and with goodwill on all sides, let us hope that Hindi
will soon become the medium of expression not only for the Union and for the
purposes of communication between the Union and the States and in between the
States, but also the medium of culture and higher education and training.

Permit me to say a few words about the general make-up and drafting of the
Constitution. It has been a general complaint that we have taken too much time
and have made the Constitution too cumbrous. I share that opinion and many
things which could have been provided for by ordinary laws made by Parliament
and rules and regulations have found a place in the Constitution. May be that
the Drafting Committee was too much obsessed with the idea of giving too much
and too many safeguards, but let us not forget that paper safeguards would
come to nothing unless the future generation is preapred to respect them. I
have yet to come across a Constitution of a free country which provides
safeguards for the services as we have done. I do not mean that we should
break any of the guarantees that we have given to the services but surely
Constitution is not the place where those guarantees should be provided. We
could as well have left law making on the comparatively less important matters
to the good sense of the generations to come and I am sure that none would
have been the worse for it. But at this late stage it will not serve any
useful purpose to lay too much stress on that aspect of the question.

Finally, there is nothing novel or striking about this Constitution. It has
freely drawn upon the experience of others, and whatever my other friends
might think, in my opinion it is essentially bad to be conservative in the
matter of constitution making provided the Constitution does nto bar or block
the passage to progress and new departures. I think there is ample scope for
development in this constitution as will be seen from the various articles
giving Parliament the power to make laws even against some express provisions
of the Constitution without amending the Constitution. In fact there are parts
of the country, particularly the States representing the Indian States, where
the constitutional and political progress and the adminsitrative machinery
have not attained a stage fully in conformity with the conditions laid down in
the Constitution. I am told on good authority that great efforts will be
needed before those parts are ready for the first general election. Naturally,
therefore in a constitution mad for units in the various stages of progress,
some justification exists for a halting manner of approach. Then there is
nothing to stop us from doing that.

Before, I conclude, I must thank you, Sir, for the patience and forbearance
with which you have conducted the business of this Hosue even when things
became dull and listless. But for your vigilance and guidance the progress of
this Constitution may have been slower. Yet you have given no opportunity or
occasion to anybody to feel that he has not been given the fullest opportunity
to express himself. With these words, Sir, I conclude.

**Shri S. V. Krishnamoorthy Rao** (Mysore State): Mr. President, Sir, I deem it a great privilege to have had an opportunity of being associated in the framing of this Constitution under your able guidance and I stand before you to add my humble need of praise to the Chairman and members of the Drafting Committee for making an excellent job of the work that was entrusted to them. Sir, I submit that under the heavy stress and strain of time and circumstacnes under which they had to undertake this task, no other committee or no other body would have given us a better Constitution.

Many are the charges that are levellwed against this Constitution I would like
to enumerate some of these charges. One of them is that the Constituent
Assembly has taken too long a time nearly three years. Let us not forget that
the American Constituent Assembly took nine years to frame the Constitution.
Australia and Canada and Africa took more than two years. Another objection is
that it is too lengthy, that it is three times the length of the Soveit
Constitution and nine time the length of the American Constitution. Some
members said that the civil liberties embodied in this Constitution are a
farce, that this Constitution is a jumble of the various sections from various
other Constitutions of the world, that the Centre is too strong and the States
have been crippled, that adult franchine that we have embarked on in this
Constitution is a great risk under the circumstances prevailing in the country
that the Gandhian ideals have been given the go-by, that this is a capitalist
constitution and that the socialist principles have been sacrificed. Some
constitutional pandits have objected that the Directive Principles embodied in
this Constitution like prevention of cow slaughter, encouragement of village
industries, establishment of gram panchayats, abolition of untouchability,
separation of the judiciary from the executive, these are all administrative
matters and need not have been burdened in a Constitution like this. Objection
has also been taken that no provision for referendum and initiation has been
included in this Constitution.

As against this, what are the things that we have provided for in this
Constitution? For the first time, after a dependence of more than 1,000 years
India, Bharat has emerged as a Sovereign Democratic Republic. We have embodied
justiciable Fundamental Rights which any citizen, when they are violated, can
take up the Supreme Court and have his grievance redressed. We have embarked
upon the great experiment of adult franchise and nearly sixteen to eighteen
crores of the population of India will be going to the polls when we hold a
general election. We have adopted parliamentary democracy. Take any section we
find that the supremacy of the Parliament has been embodied in the
Constitution. For the first time in the history of India, there is
integration, political integration, financial integration, economic
integration and judicial integration and also defence integration. Today,
under this Constitution, there will be no more petty armies; we had a bit of
that army in Hyderabad. Under this Constitution, there will be only one army
and that will be under the command of the President of India. As regards
political and economic integration. I would only quote from the London Times.
In a leading articles on 7th Februrary, 1949, the London Times wrote:

"The operations by which Bismarck unified the German Reich were on a much
smaller scale than those by which the Government of India in a short time has
transformed the patchwork of State jurisdictions that made the political map
of India a crazy quilt. The transformation has been profound but peaceful."

Sardar Patel can look back with pride and satisfaction at the achievements of
his Ministry and the nation pays its homage to the great leader. We, have done
away with differentiation between the States and Provinces, today, under the
Constitution all are States. I am glad, Sir, that much of the sting that was
contained in the original article 306-B, which is now article 372 has been
taken away and article 365 is made applicable to all the States. Nobody likes
this article 365, much less do I. But, I hope that this article will remain a
dead letter and there will be no occasion to make use of the provisions of
this article. Under this Constitution, the words minority and untouchables
have been abolished. Separate electorates have been abolished. Untouchability
has been made an offence. The fundamentals of socialism have been embodied in
the Directive Principles of the governance of the State and all titles have
been abolished.

As regards the discretionary powers, Sir, I have gone through the Constitution
as carefully as I can and I hardly find any discretionary power vested in the
Governors except when he had to make a report to the President regarding the
proclamation of an emergency or under Schedules V and VI regarding Scheduled
Tribes and Scheduled Areas. As regards the emergency powers these emergency
powers are subject to parliamentary control and the least period possible,
namely, two months has been prescribed during which this emergency can last
and it has got to be brought before Parliament at its earliest session. Even
these emergency powers can be exercised only under very limited circumstances
when there is a threat of war or when there is external aggression or
interanal disturbance, or when the Governor or Rajpramukh reports that the
Government cannot be carried on according to the Constitution, or when the
financial stability on credit of a State is, in the opinion of the President,
in jeopardy. Even then, Sir, these emergency legislations have no come under
the review of Parliament and if the Parliament passes a resolution that the
emergency should cease, the proclamation becomes void.

Under this Constitution inter-state trade and commerce is free. Special
provisions have been embodied in the Constitution for the independence of the
judiciary, for the independence of the Auditor General and ot the offices of
the legislatures. Elections are placed above executive interference. We have
all India Commissions like the Finance Commission, Inter-state Council, the
Public Service Commission and the Election Commission which can function
without any interference from the Executive. I submit, Sir, that these
provisions which have been embodied in the Constitution are no mean
achievement.

I submitted that the Drafting Committee had to work under very great stress
and strain. If we can find any parallel at all, we have to go back to the
history of Constitution making in Amercia. I would like to quote a passage
from a book called the Great Reherarsal by Carl Van Doren. In his book he has
stated:

".......State loyalties were deeply entrenched in the hearts of the people of
Amercia of those days. Loyalty to a new central authority was not easy to
create. Many compromises were necessary and many political gadgets had to be
invented before a general measure of agreement could be reached, among the
delegates to the convention in regard to the shape of the new constitution.
With the return of peace, the States had drifted apart. Many of these States
could hardly resist the temptations to read the path of narrow self interest.
If the financial interest before the country was grave, the chaos which had
evertaken it in the domain of commerce was graver still."

Mr. Justife Bengamin Cardozo observed:

"that the people of the several States must sink or swin together and that in
the long run prosperity and salvation are in Union and not in division"-

Washington, in 1786 had written-

"There are combustible materials in every State which a spark might set fire
to".

Carl Van Doren opens his book with the Chapter, "Commander and Philosopher".
The Commander was George Washington who ahd led his country to victory. The
Philosopher was Benjamin Franklin whose signal services to the nation had made
him a legend in his own time. He says :

"That dignity and poise of the Commander, the broad humanity and mellowed
wisdom, of the philosopher contributed in no small measure to the success of
the convention."

Speaking of the two great leaders, Carl Van Doren says :

"They had borne the two heaviest buirdens of the revolution . Washington at
home, and Franklin abroad, each of them too honest to feel suspicion,, too
great to feel envy."

I submit that these remarks of the author apply to India with hundred times
greater force. The two great leaders who have been piloting the affairs of the
State have borne a very burden and this Constituent Assembly has also
functioned as a Parliament during this interim period.

We have crossed many hurdles these two years and under the stress and strain
of the stupendous problems that the country had to face, I submit the time
that we have taken is too small and in other Assembly placed under similar
circumstances could have taken lesser time.

As regards the limitations that have been placed on the Fundamental Rights, I
would only submit against the charge that we have borrowed freely from other
Constitutions. After all no written Constitution is final in this world. We
have to borrow from the experience of other nations. If we take either the
pre-war period or the port-war period or the period during the war, and study
the working of Federal Constitutions we find the trend towards a strong Centre
in every Constitution. The Centre is being made strong today because we are in
an atomic age. Let alone a drought in Gujarat or a flood in Andhra Pradesh to
day if there is a drought in Canada or a bumper crop in Australia the economic
set up of the world is upset and we hear the distant echoes even in our
country and when we had to face thewe stupendous problems would submit,
nothing but the height of folly. If these provisions were embodied, it is by
way of an abundant caution. I do not think even the Members of the Drafting
Commtitee like these provisions. I am sure though no occasion will arisewhen
these limitations int he Fundamental Rights of the Emergency Powers will be
used in working this Constitution,.

Then there was a charge that Gandhian principles have been sacrificed. I
already submitted that we have embodied provisions for removal of
untoucability for national language, for communal harmony and for goodwill and
gurantees to minorities, encouragement of Gram Panchayats and village
industries and for protection of mulch cattle. These are the planks on which
Gandhism flourished in this country and it created a non violent revolution in
this country. If these principles have been embodied in the Constitution, I
want to ask how Gandhism has been sacrificed in this Constitution. I submit
that enough provision has been made for the carrying out of the programme that
was enunciated by the Father of the Nation. This Constitution is a harmonious
blending of the best Indian traditions - the political and constitutional
experience of other countries and the Gandhism ideals. A great sense of
reality pervades the whole structure the Constitution. Given the goodwill and
the will to serve the country and the spirit of self-sacrifice that prevailed
in us when we struggled for independence, this Constitution can bring
happiness to this country. It is time that we settle down to constructive work
and I hope under this Constitution if we have the sense of goodwill that has
prevailed in this Assembly in solving many problems like the language problem,
minority problem the citizenship problem, compensation clause etc., I am sure
this Constitution will usher a new era in this country.

Regarding the language question, I may bring to the notice of this Assembly
that we are already implementing the Resolution that was adopted in this
Assembly. I am glad to inform the House that the Government of Mysore has
passed an order making Hindi compulsory in all High Schools in the State but I
am sorry to find a similar response is lacking from some of our Hindi friends.
The Hindi Sahitya Sammelan has criticised the agreed resolution that was
passed in this Assembly. I appeal to our Hindi friends to work in the same
spirit of give and take and to take us with them so far as the language
question is concerned. Given the goodwill I submit once again that this
Constitution will pave the way for the happiness and contentment of this
ancient land of ours.

**Shri Upendranath Barman** ** **(West Bengal : General): Mr. President, this Constitution has been criticised by many Members on account of this defect or that I shall not enter into any controversy over the arguments advanced by them. As I judge it from the point of view of a common man, I find that this Assembly has given enough for the common man to develop and to rise out of the present hopeless state of affairs. There is no doubt that most of the articles in this Constitution have been taken from the 1935 Act but there is one fundametnal change that has been made by this Assembly and that it the adult franchise. It is this right that has changed the whole outlook of the 1935 Act, in this sense that the real democracy will today, tomorrow or the day after come into power. Today the under-privileged class of our country, in spite of all the provisions made in the Government of India Act, 1935, can not have any power in their hands becuase of the fact that many of them have not got franchise. They have really no voice in the administration of the country but when this Constitution will come into operation and first election held under this Constitution, I dare say that the whole aspect will change. The 1935 Act gives power to the masses only to a certain extent but because our masses are ignorant, even that part of it cannot exercise it because of class domination and domination by those who are propertied, or who are now in the upper strata of intelligence. But tomorrow when this Constitution will come intop play and throughout the length the breath of this country the masses of the country who form 85 per cent of the population of India will have the final say or a greater say in electing our legislatures and ultimately in the constitutional heads, the cabinets in the Provinces and also in the Centre. I dare say that their voices will be heard. Otherwise they can choose the next time their own friends. So there is that fundamental difference which has been introduced by which, though the provisions difference which has been introduced by which, though the provisions of the Constitution might by in many parts borrowed from the Constitution of 1935, the conditions will be entirely different.

Now, Sir, it has been said that we have taken too long a time in framing this
Constitution. I do not know, but my honourable Friend who has just spoken said
that the American constitution making had taken nine years. May I ask the
honourable Members who have criticised this Constitution to remember one
thing. What was the condition of the country before the commencement of the
work of framing of this Constitution ? What were the pledges that were before
the framers of this Constitution those who had guided the destinies of this
country, and what were the problems that they had to tackle? I should like to
mention two things. First of all there were five hundred and sixty two native
States, and when the British Government had been withdrawn, they were really
besides the provinces, five hundred and sixty two parts of India.. If this
Constitution had been framed in a hurry, would the Constitution have been the
same as we have it now? We can very easily realsise that our Constitution
would have been quite different from what it is now, and we owe gratitude to
the Honourable Sardar Vallabhbai Patel and to other leaders of our country for
the way they have tackled this problem of the State. They have tackled it in
such a way that in spite of the fact that India was left by the British in
such cahos, they have merged India into one within the course of this short
period, and for the whole of India we have got one Constitution. There is some
little difference here and there, but we must remember the success that we
have achieved by this time, and when we do that, we are left in no doubt that
these differences also will soon disappear.

The second point, that I may mention is that within our body politic, whoever
may have been responsible for it, our country was divided into several
communal divisions, and when the British left India, so far as my impression
goes, the British before transferring power, took solemn words from our
eladers that all the privileges of the minorities would be honoured by them.
Our leaders have honourse those pledges and in spite of that, we find that our
Constitution today is free from many of the evil things that existed at that
time. it is not that the majority has, by the simplified this matter, and
removed those evil things from this Constitution, but it is the minorities
themselves who have willingly consented to it, when they found that there is
really no cause for any apprehension and that for the good of India they
should give them up. As regards my own community, I confess that we thought
that at least for some time to come, we should be given some privileges, and I
with gratitude thank the Members of this Constituent Assemnbly and also the
leaders for conceding those privileges for a certain period. Now, I would ask,
if our Constitution had been framed hastily, do you think this Constitution
could have come out in its present state? Therefore, though there has been
some delay but as I have said, I do not admit it-yet this delay has been all
for the good of the country as a whole.

Coming to the point of view of the common man, as I observed at the very
beginning I find that the common man, or the masses of this country, will be
having a great voice in the future administration of our country. After all we
are wedded to democracy and there are no two opinions that we should have
adopted any other system of Government. Having accepted that the only system
of democracy that we find successfully working in the world is the
parliamentary system of democracy. We have, therefore, necessarily to look
into the constitutions of those democracies which are working successfully and
in my opinion, the genius of India has accepted the best parts that it could
gather from all parts of the world wherever the parliamentary system of
democracy works. In this very system, I would stress again, the regeneration
of the masses, the down-trodden part of humanity, lies. According to
parliamentary system as we have accepted it here, the country is to be
governed by an elected House, and though there are two parts, two Houses at
the Centre, it is the House of the People wthat has the final say in matters
of money Bills, in matters of expenditure and in matters of ways and means
Budget, which concern the masses of the country vitally. They are the economic
ills that really lie at the bottom of all ills of the masses of this country.
In the proper working of this Constitution that we have framed, the masses
must be alert, and if they are alert enough or wise enough, they will choose
the right leaders who will riase the masses, and they will be masters in this
House of the People and also in the legislative assemblies in the Provinces.
It is for them to devise in what way the conditions of the masses could be
bettered. What more cna be done under the parliamentary system of democracy I
can not imagine. If there is any defect in the Constitution, as many
honourable Members have already indicated, there is enough scope within the
Constitution itself to amend any of the provisions that required to be
amended.

Coming next to the actual structural part of the Government, that will be set
up in the near future, I would only ask the honourable Members of this Hosue
to take notie of one Directive principle that has been inserted in this
Constitution. I mean the Village Panchayat Organisation; and alongwith that
the directive principles of educating our children up to the age of Fourteen
by giving them free and compulsory education. If these two directives are
properly observed by our future Government, then I think the condition of this
country will be bettered in the near future and that will be to the good of
the whole country. A centralised system of Government in a country like India
with thirty-five crores of people and with a vast areas which is perhaps more
than Europe will be no remedy for these evils. No centralised Government, with
an adminsitrative machinery more especially the one that has been handed over
to us by the British will be able to remove these evils that are now eating
into the vitals of the rural areas and of the under-privileged. When we have
given adult-franchise when we have trusted each and every adult citizen int he
country to be the masters in the forming of the Government, it would be a
folly if we delay even for a single day the constitution of these panchayats.
When you have trusted them to the extent of giving them a voice in the
composition of the Government, it is but natural that you should trust them
with some responsibility. Once you do this, that will relieve us of a lot of
burden of adminsitrative responsibility, at least in regard to day to day
affairs. So long as you expect the Government servants to take charge of the
masses, the masses will remain irresponsible and will go on complaining
against the Government. But once you entrust them with certain
responsibilities for local administration, they will be keen on taking charge
of their affairs.

Of course criticisms have been made that the village panchayats cannot work,
because our villagers are ignorant, and that there will be scramble for power.
But a glance at the daily papers will convince us that in most of the
provinces there is a scramble for power even on the part of the provincial
leaders. So, it would be an absolutely silly argument to say that the masses
are not yet fit to govern even in their local adminsitration and the interests
that concern them the most. My only submission is that as soon as possible we
should form these village panchayats and transfer the bulk of the powers that
concern the villages to these village panchayats, so that many of the problems
of governing this country will be solved.

Last of all, I have to pay my homage to the great Mahatma whom I remember with
gratitude. It was in the year 1938 that I had the privilege of meeting him at
Calcutta and of discussing with him several problems about the under
privileged scheduled castes. Amongst many other points, I agreed with him that
so long as the British were in power they ( the scheduled castes ) could not
expect any privilege by going against them. The Mahatma replied that when the
Congress come to power, they would give the Scheduled Castes the privilege
they require. After a decade I find that the words of that votary of truth and
non violence have come true. India has become independent now and I with
devotion remember those words of the Mahatma. I am also grateful to all
Members of this August House for the privileges that they have extended to the
scheduled castes of India. I bow down with respect to that great soul who had
always the interests of the Scheduled Castes at heart.

**Shri P. Kakkan **Madras. General): Mr. president, Sir, I stand here to support the motion moved by Honourable Dr. Ambedkar. I also want to express my heartfelt thanks to you and the Drafting Committee for giving all kinds of help to the Harijans by this Constitution. As you know, Sir, Gandhiji, the Father of the nation, changed the mind of the Caste Hindus and showed a way to abolish untoucability by joint electorate system. Now we have achieved our goal by the joint electorate system.

I believe, Sir, that the Congress Party is the only party which is working for
the uplift of the Harijans; not any other party. So from , this August
Assembly, I appeal to the Harijans of the Union to join the Congress and work
for the uplift of the Harijans. In this connection, I would also appeal to Dr.
Ambedkar to join the Congress and work for the uplift fo the Harijans, within
the ten years.

I am very glad, Sir, that the Panchayat system has got a place in this
Constitution.

I hope that the Government of India will take necessary steps to bring the
panchayat system into every nook and corner of this vast country and develop
grama swaraj according to the wishes of Mahatmaji without any distinction of
caste, creed and colour.

Lastly, Sir, we have given power to the villagers by the introduction of the
adult franchise system. I hope the voters in future will not misuse their
voting power. I also believe Sir, the people of India will not foreget
Gandhism which is not only for India but for the whole world. I would pay my
trubute especially to the Honourable Mr.Gopalaswami Ayyangar, Shri Alladi
Krishnaswami Ayyar and Mr. T. T. Krishnamachari who have come from Madras
Province because they have done a great service to this country as members of
the Drafting Committee.

**Shri M. Thirumala Rao** ( Madras: General): Sir, I feel it is a matter of personal privilege to add my voice in the chorus of tribute that has been paid to the labours of all the people that have given their time and energy in drafting this Constitution. Therefore, I do not stand here merely to derive the satisfaction of speaking something but, with a human frailty that I am also one of those that has played his little part in evolving the Constitution, to say my last word during the last stages.

One can not but remember with gratitude the great personality that has moulded
this nation out of mere clay, enthused it with the idea of freedom fired it
with a dertermination for action and saw during his lifetime that the ideal
has been realised. It may be said that the visualisation of an ideal is
something different from actualisation. The enchantment of distance to an
ideal which inspired us in those days has gone today, because we have reached
our ideal and we are now in a practical position to see what the difficulties
are in the actual situation.

I thought that the framers of this Constitution and the leaders that have
inspired the draftsmen would have incorporated with gratitude the name of
Mahatma Gandhi as one of the founders of our nation, the real father of Modern
India, who had given a new message to the whole world, I do not know what
influenced them not to include his name in the Draft Constitution which would
have been in keeping with our traditions, with the traditions of ancient
India, for we ahve always humbly and with gratitude remembered our ancestors
from morn till evening on every auspicious occasion. It would have been in the
fitness of things if we had incorporated in the articles of our Constitution
the name of Mahatma Gandhi but our leaders willed otherwise.

We are on the even of epoch-making events. The West has been in a turmoil. It
has had its days of freedom for some years and the Eastern nations are now
falling one after another for new ideas. India today is the crossroads between
the East and the West and we are now being planted on the road to future self
government in the shape of this Constitution.

I want to say a few words with regrd to the merits of this Constitution,
because it is a thing to get away from the realities of the situation. In the
beginning when this Constituent Assembly was addressed by Pandit Nehru he said
that our aim should be to draft a constitutionn which will give us an
independent sovereign republic. The word independent has been given the go-by
and in its place the word democracy has crept in. This has enabled us to
remain within the Empire and not to snap the link with the British
Commonwealth. It ist he result of the momentum of events and it is the logical
inevitability of 150 years of British rule. India has to stay in the British
Commonwealth for some more time until we are in a psoition to discard all
sorts of shackles including the Commonwealth. True, the logic of events has
compelled us to remain. From a debtor nation we have turned out to be a
creditor nation to whom our erstwhile masters now owe to the tune of 1200
crores. Until we are able to recover the amount from Great Britain, until we
are able to shed all our previous commitments in the way of the British
connection, it will not be in the interests of the country to snap the British
connection. That is the only consideration I think that has influenced our
leaders and that is the only consideration that has influenced this House to
agree to remain within the British commonwealth for the minimum period that is
required.

With regard to the Constitution itself it is a piece of achievement of which
our leaders may be justly proud. The British had established their hold firmly
on this country by having a strong unitary government and at the same time
dividing the country into compartments in which the people had no control.
They had created 630 native states called Ulsters, kept them in a most
backward condition and they always dominated their policies from the Centre.
They had created vested interests in the Muslim community and given them
separate electorates. They had allowed them to join hands against Indian
nationalism. They had created an all India administration whose loyalty was
purchased at every turn, at the cost of India freedom which many of us know to
our costs. With these three weapons in their armoury the British had founded a
unified centrally controlled government in this country which they thought
would last as long as their empire. It was perhaps Lord Morley who said that
within the purview of human ken he could never imagine the day when the
British Empire would be dissolved. The British statesmen have carried on but
they never though that between them and their destiny rose a humble man in
this country ( who was derisively called the 'Naked Fakir" by the prince of
imperialists Mr. Churchill) to upset all their plans and dissolve the empire
with the breath of his Satyagraha. With the legacy of a divided India left to
us it is the practical wisdom of Sardar patel which saw through the game and
he rose on the occasion and met it with an equally powerful strategy. The
British had left and therefore we have to act exactly as the British had acted
in dealing with the situation. When the British left they thought that the
States would rise against the Congress government. But Sardar Patel and his
advisers rose to the occasion with the strength of the Congress and the
country behind them. He has worked the miracle of dissolving all the States
and given them a new shape by incorporating them with provinces or creating
unions,. My friends from the Native States need not feel any inferiority
complex that they are being treated as inferior brothers. Not at all. History
tells us that the native States have been the happy hunting ground of
reaction, oppression and backwardness. To overcome all these difficulties in a
year or two is not an easy task, but the Constitution has ensured once for all
that their status is not inferior to those of the British Indian Provinces
that have had experience of the political leadership under the Congress for
the last 70 years. Therefore, the Native States have been brought on a par
with the Provinces.

With regard to separate electorates Sardar Patel had again played a notable
part by being the Chairman of the Minorities Committee. With the able
assistance of a genuine patriot, a selfless patriot like Dr. H. C. Mookerjee
who has been our Vice President and has filled the place with equal worth as
you yourself, Sir, with his assistance and selfless devotion to the united
nationalism of this country, Sardar patel has been able to abolish the
separate electorates for all the minorities and once for all erased from the
pages of the Constitution the last canker of British imperialism.

With regard to another item for bringing about the unity of the country, we
have been able to integrate the whole of the army into one single Army. Also,
we have maintained the tradition of an all-India service in the Indian
Administrative Service which will be avle to uphold certain standards of
conduct, rectitude and incorruptibility so that this country may carry on its
policies through this efficient service. By these three agencies which have
been created under the able guidance of Sardar Patel, this country has been
unified and all those questions dealing with these matters have been
incorporated in this Constitution.

The Indian National Congress has been responsible for winning freedom and it
has been responsible mainly, if not chiefly, for drafting this Constitution.
The Constitution has got the indelible impress of the Congress ideology on
this. Many friends have complimented you, Sir, that you have risen to the
occasion of parliamentary practice by presiding over these deliberations.
Perhaps they were not in the Congress, perhaps they have not had the personal
experience of your leadership, being the President of the Congress twice and
conducting m,ore boisterous meetings of the All India Congress Committee
several times. The efficiency, the capacity, the patriotism and the
parliamentary calibre of the All India Congress Committee is reflected in this
House, and, Sir, when you were the President of the Congress, we need not
specially compliment you because it is no new task for you in conducting this
Body efficiently as its President. Nor are our statesmen new to the task of
Government because our Prime Minister and our Deputy Prime Minister and
several other Congress Ministers have more than justified their existence as
Ministers owing to their experience as public men and leaders of public
opinion.

Sir, I want to say one or two things with regard to the Andhra Province for
which I should like to express my gratitude. I want to draw the attention of
the House to this fact. When we went in deputation to the Congress Working
Committee in 1938 when Babu Subhas Bose was the President, led by the late
lamented Deshabhakta Konda Venkatappayya Pantulu, the deputation consisting of
some other Congress leaders, the Congress Working Committee solemnly assured
the Andrhas that they will get the Andhra Province as soon as the question of
Indian independence was solved. We have not hitched our wagon to the star of
reactionarism. The Andhras have always implicity trusted Mahatma Gandhi's
leadership and the Congress leadership. They had not flirted with the Simon
Commission, they incurred the greatest displeasure of Lord Simon for having
boycotted him at every stage of their stay and the British Government though
that we were severely punished by not creating the Province. But we have
always trusted Congress and Congress leadership and we are grateful today for
having received fulfilment of the promise made by the Congress Working
Committee in 1938 in their resolution. Do not understand that the question of
the Andhra Province is any 'depressed class' or any subsidiary movement. It is
an essential movement of our nationalism. They say the administration should
be carried on in the mother tongue or in the regional language, but in Madras
the administration has to be carried on in English because the province
consists of four different linguistic areas. If every Province in India were
to develop fully and our democracy is to work effectively, then you must
remove this artificial importance of the English speaking man between the so-
called man in the street, the real taxpayer and the Government.

With regard to adult franchise, I am not very enthusiastic about it. I am
afraid it is a weapon whichcuts both ways; but fortunately or unfortunately
our leaders were committed to it in their earlier stages of agitation asking
for a Constituent Assembly based on adult franchise. Adult franchise
enfranchises nearly 17 crores of our people and all of them have to be put on
the rolls. Without proper education, without the proper development of
patriortism in this country, I am afraid this is a dangerous weapon. The
Gandhian satyagraha movement has not really permeated the masses. It has
touched the fringe of the villages. After all, only four to five lakhs of
people have gone to jail, that is the intelligentsia and the intellectual
middle class have been the mainstay of the Gandhian movement and with that
experience we must see how far the sense of patrioritsm has gone down. You saw
the spirit of narrowness in one of my honourable friends, a member of this
House when he stated that his vision does not go far beyond Orissa. He loves
his home, his village, his district and then his Province. His vision does not
go far enough to assess the real worth of the leadership of Pandit Jawaharlal
Nehru or Sardar Patel. If an enlgihtened Member of this House has not got a
patriortic vision extending beyond the frontiers of his Province, what about
the uneducated millions who are led to think by interested politicians in the
name of their communities and sub-communities? During the last District Board
elections the leaders of our Provinces had come out with statements that sub-
communal feelings have been exploited in the elections and peoplel must be
careful about it. As a matter of fact, when these constituencies are being
divided, interested leaders are already scanning the constituencies are being
divided, interested leaders are already scanning the constituencies to see
whether a particular constituency contains the majority of the voters of his
own community or not, whether a political adventurer will be able to come out
and succeed in that particular constituency by raising slogans against the
interests of the country. That is my genuine feeling about the adult
franchise. Not that I am less enthusiastic than any of our friends here who
are swearing by adult franchise. By all means have it, have it within the next
four or five years or within the next ten years on a graded basis. Today the
total voting strength is about 3 crores; make it ten crores by the next
elections and 17 crores in the elections after that. But when you are playing
with this so called democratic weapon it presumes two sides to the question.
It is not merely the question of the electorate, it is not merely the question
of the members of the legislature that are returned on that adult franchise,
but it is also a question of leadership. The country must be able to provide
leaders of sufficient calibre experience patriotism and disinterestedness in
carrying out the real principle of this Constitution.

Situated as we are, we wanted to have a federal Constitution but we have
produced a Constitution that is mostly unitary. We have delegated all the
residuary powers to the Central government and we are trying to make it as
strong as possible. No doubt, with all the States, with a cancer like
Hyderabad in the stomach of this country - recently eliminated, with a danger
zone on our frontiers in Kashmir, with the Communists trying to grab power by
any means and all means at their disposal and with the RSS people with a
popular slogan of Indian culture and Hindudom on their lips trying to capture
political power, it is a dangerous thing to trifle with the Central
government. Seeing all these things, our leaders with a foresight born of
experience of the past and a proper appraisement of the future, have said that
the residuary powers of this nation shoudl rest with a Government which is
strong in the Centre. Not only that, there is another personal element on
which the whole effectiveness of this Constitution rests, namely, the prime
Minister of this country is amde all powerful. You have given every power to
the leader of the majority group in the Central Legislature to work this
Constitution, to work this democratic Constitution whuch you have prepared and
it all depends on the personality of the Prime Minister exercising enormous
powers. The Congress, though it obtained independence for this country, though
it is the majority party running the Government of this country, it was not
mean or had the intriguing nature to incorporate in the Constitution any
provision that would perpetuate its power for some time to come. They have
divested themselves of such selfish motives and created an instrument in which
any party that has got the largest support in the country can take power and
run the administration of the country and fashion it as it likes. But still we
believe that the personality of our Prime Minister and our Deputy Prime
Minister are indelibly impressed in the Constitution and it is the fond hope
of millions of people that they will be spared to us for many years to come to
see that the power that is gained by your Nation is consolidated in the best
interests of the poorest man in the street whose protection this Constitution
envisages.

With regard to Fundamental Rights I need not say much, since every right is
not an absolute right. Every right wherever it is enjoyed is always hemmed in
by considerations of public policy and public conduct and also by the safety
of the State. If every man wants to exercise his right and take advantage of
it without taking any responsibility for the welfare of the State, he must be
shown the place to which he should rightly go. That is the only exception.
Where with regard to Fundamental Rights has this Constitution not made full
provision? This Constitution enables all loyal citizens to carry on their
avocations and professions peacefully and gives them a guarantee against the
meddlesome elements in the country who want to exercise undue absolutely
rights at the expesne of others.

In this connection one happening has to be mentioned. I was surprised sometime
ago to find a reputed ex-Judge of the Patna High Court presiding over a Civil
Liberties Conference held in Madras and attacking all the Congress Governments
from the Centre down to the provinces. He almost ran amuck in his attack of
the Governments in the name of civil liberty. His speech was full of abuse of
constituted Governments and it was quoted by communists. Even the communists
would not have indulged in civil liberty in a more extreme manner than that
ex-judge of the Patna High Court. That is not civil liberty.. Every citizen
must have some sense of responsibility for maintaining tranquillity in the
country. That alone will enable the people of the country to enjoy the fruits
of freedom. Under the cloak of civil liberty, you should nto allowe even these
champions of civil liberty who retire after a lifetime of service under a
foreign slave-master and now come in full glory and vigour in support of civil
liberties to speak as they like. It must be pointed out to them that they have
a responsibility to the State.

Sir, I do not want to take much of the time of the House, though I want to say
one other things. Situated as we are, we are in possession of a Constitution
which can be turned to best account by the persons that work it by the
legislators and by the Ministers that these legislators would choose. I, say
that it depends mostly on the Prime Ministers for the next few years of this
country to see that the greatest benefit is derived from this Constitution. We
have rightly selected, Sir, the Chakra as our emblem, as the historic
reminiscence of the period of Asoka. Describing the meaning of this Chakra,
Rhys David the famous orientalist has said that this Chakra is intended to
send rolling the Royal Chariot wheel of universal empire of truth and
righteousness. If any country which departs from the essential moral
principles on which it professes to stand it has no future. But this country
in keeping with the ancient traditions and ideals has rightly chosen that
Chakra which is called the Dharma Chakra of Asoka and Mahatma Gandhi has
blessed this Chakra. With his spirit hovering over this nation and with this
emblem on our flag, it is the duty of this House and the leaders of the future
to uphold the Congress principles and fulfil the destiny of this Nation.

The Assembly then adjourned till Ten of the Clock on Wednesday, the 23rd
November 1949.

_________________________________________________  
  
---  
  


