|  |

|

**Constituent Assembly Debates (Proceedings) -**** ****VOLUME XI**

* * *

**Wednesday, the 23rd November 1949**

\----------------

 The Constituent Assembly of India met in the Constitution Hall, New Delhi at
Ten of the Clock, Mr. President (The Honourable Dr. Rajendra Prasad) in the
chair.

\---------------

**DRAFT CONSTITUTION---(Contd.)**

**Shri Ari Bahadur Gurung** (West Bengal : General) : Mr. President, Sir, I associate myself with my colleagues in congratulating the Chairman of the Drafting Committee for having brought this stupendous task to a successful conclusion. I have only a few observations to make. Firstly, the criticism of the Constitution that it does not provide for the establishment of Socialism is as irrelevant as the complaint that it is likely to open the way to dictatorship is futile. The real test of democracy is to give the right to the people to decide for themselves the nature of the Government they would like to have. The question of dictatorship or Totalitarian Communism will depend entirely upon the manner in which the people will work the Constitution. The Constitution will be subject to a continuous series of modifications according to the will of the people. Such are the provisions already provided in the Constitution. Sir, I personally feel that a Constitution is something of sacred character which inspires future generations. It is the embodiment of the living faith and philosophy of life of those who framed it. To judge this, one has only to look the reflection of the supreme will of the people as to the form of the government they want. Although the Constitution will become the law of the land, there will be nothing sacrosanct about it because it will be subject to modifications as I said before. For all intents and purposes, under the existing circumstances, this Constitution is a model one to suit the various needs of the people living in India.

I would now like to refer to article 5 relating to Citizenship. The community
to whom I belong consider this of vital importance, and I feel it is my duty
to mention here that one-third of the total population of Gurkhas have come
and settled down in India. According to census figures, out of one crore,
about 67.5 lakhs are in Nepal and the rest have settled down in India and the
Gurkhas remaining here are most of them descendants of those soldiers who
fought in many battles in India. We claim the same right of citizenship under
article 5, provided we fulfil all the obligations laid down therein. Sometime
ago in the beginning of the year when I spoke about the Gurkhas, I said that
they have been a special provision for the backward classes of people with
regard to the service, but unfortunately under the Constitution such
privileges are given only to the Scheduled Castes, the Tribals and Anglo-
Indians, even though article 16, para (4), provides that "Nothing in this
article shall prevent the State from making any provision for the reservation
of appointments of posts in favour of any backward class of citizens which, in
the opinion of the State, is not adequately represented in the services under
the State". In other words, it gives by one hand and takes away by another.
This is the greatest injustice done to people who are very backward, though
they do not have the privilege of being classed as Scheduled Castes or
Tribals. I sincerely hope that the future Parliament, whose members will be
elected on adult franchise will amend this omission. About ninety per cent, of
the total population of India are backward and these people in future, through
their representatives, will see how his Constitution works.

There have been strong criticisms about the Constitution providing a strong
Centre. I feel that under the existing circumstances there is no other
alternative than to have a strong Centre.

With regard to article 3 and 4 read with article 391 of this Constitution, I
have some observations to make on West Bengal. As you know, Sir, after the
Radcliffe Award the two Districts of Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri have been
entirely cut off from West Bengal. In view of the defence of the northern
frontier of India, this is a matter taht calls for immediate attention of the
Government of India. With the imminent fall of the Kuomintang Government in
China, Tibet, the next-door neighbour of India, is according to reports,
becoming the scene of Communist intrigues. The State of Sikhism and the
District of Darjeeling connect Tibet with the Indian Union, and Assam, the
eastern-most frontier of the Indian Union, is linked with the rest of India by
a narrow strip of land consisting of portions of Darjeeling district and
Jalpaiguri. These areas as also the State of Cooch Bihar, in view of their
strategic importance need to be strengthened and consolidated.

The Districts of Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri which are the northern-most
districts of West Bengal have no contiguity with the rest of West Bengal, East
Pakistan having come in between. This circumstances gives rise to many
administrative inconveniences in ordinary times and more so during a period of
emergency. Being a Frontier region such inconveniences if allowed to continue
longer are fraught with grave dangers. My object in making this observation
with regard to these two districts of West Bengal is this that if we look at
the map of India, we find that there is only a narrow strip of land,
connecting Bihar with Assam, that is the districts of Darjeeling and
Jalpaiguri. Pakistan points like a sword towards the heart of India. If there
is to be any trouble, unfortunately, God forbid, especially between Pakistan
and India, Assam can be isolated within a very short period, the northern
parts of Himalayas being inaccessible; and these are the territories that need
the immediate attention of the Government.

**Shri K. Hanumanthaiya **(Mysore State) : Air travel is available.

**Shri Ari Bahadur Gurung **: Thank you very much for your suggestion but that all depends on the strength we have. As a matter of fact in modern warfare the air has played a very important part in bombardment. The last battle has been fought and won on the land. If you read the history of all wars, especially the first war and the last war, it was actually the infantry which decide the whole fate. In the last war it might be the atomic bomb on Hiroshima that decided the fate but that was a cruel thing and if a war has to be fought, it must be fought on the land. I feel Sir, that should an emergency arise the Commission that is likely to be appointed should look into these matters stated above, because these two districts of Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri have been completely isolated from the rest of West Bengal. Now sending goods to Darjeeling from Calcutta one has to send through Bihar. Due to devaluation another difficulty has arisen, namely the fare (1st Class). From Calcutta to Siliguri is about Rs.50 but from Siliguri to Calcutta one has to pay Rs.72 and there is lot of difficulty in the transport of goods from Siliguri down to Calcutta. Within the same province we have such difficulties, I, therefore, suggest that something has got to be done with these two districts; either they have got to be linked with the rest of West Bengal or some separate arrangement has got to be made. These are the observations that I have to make. Thank you very much, Sir.

**Giani Gurmukh Singh Musafir** (East Punjab: Sikh): *[Mr. President, I endorse the views of my friends without any reserve and hesitation that this Constitution of our free India is undoubtedly a grand document. To me it is an ocean and I believe that it is difficult for every driver to bring out valuable pearls from its depth and to know their intrinsic value. Taking into consideration the circumstances under which this document has been formulated, it is necessary to point out that it was very difficult to frame such a fine Constitution. Many questions had cropped up and it was very hard to solve them. For instance Minorities' problem was of utmost importance. Under the conditions prevailing in the country the solution of this problem was an uphill task. But in the manner in which it has been decided is certainly praiseworthy. Separate electorate was a curse which had blocked the path of our country's progress. Whenever the solution of this question was taken into consideration, it created an embarrassing situation and each effort for solution made the problem more and more complex. The disease increased with treatment.

Doctor Iqbal, the well known poet of our Punjab has said:-

_Mazhab nahin Sikhata apas main bair rakhna_

_Hindi hain ham watan hai Hindustan hamara_

It means : "Religion does not teach to quarrel among ourselves. We are Indians
and India is our motherland".

But the principle of separate electorate shattered the dream of the poet. Nay
even those who opposed it were forced by the circumstances which the principle
of separate electorate had engineered in the country--to support the schemes
of separatism. In this concluding lines the poet (Dr. Iqbql) being confused
and confounded gives an opportunity to the Britishers. He says:-

_Nishan-i-barg-u-gul tak bhi na choar is bag main gulchin_

_uri qismat sai razim araiyan hain baghanum main._

It means: "O'flower-picker, what to speak of the flowers of our garden, do not
leave even a single leaf because you are so lucky that we gardeners are
ourselves flying at each other's throat. Therefore you have got an opportunity
to make our garden desolate and rob it all its leaves and flowers". In our
country, separate electorate had always been the source of disruption and
religious feuds. Now separate electorate has been removed with great courage
and to my mind it is one of the fundamental virtues of this Constitution.
Separate electorate has been withdrawn from the Constitution and no
reservation has been given on religious basis. I think that these steps will
help us in making our ideal loftier. I have no hesitation in saying that the
solution of this problem appeared to be perflexing because the minorities were
suspicious and obviously the solution of this problem appeared to be very
difficult. Yet it was solved because of the personal influences and
decisiveness of our Prime Minister, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, our Deputy Prime
Minister, Sardar Patel and Shri Rajendra Prasad, President of our Assembly.
Moreover it is the result of the influence of our Maulana Abul Kalam Azad and
all those leader and this is the result of their joint efforts in solving this
problem. The curse of separate electorate has been removed from our
Constitution. Moreover the problem of reservation has also been solved. Sardar
Patel was Chairman of the Advisory Committee which was appointed for the
solution of minorities problem. Sardarji's influence; his hold; his
statesmanship; his firm resolution got the upper hand and the problem of
separate electorate was solved. I repeat that this is one of the greatest
virtues of this Constitution. It has made our Constitution much more brighter.

I would like to add a few words more regarding this Constitution.

It is the Constitution of free India and as such it is connected with the
people. Therefore this should not be considered as a mere Constitution;
Because we have also to raise the morale of our people through the Articles of
this Constitution; hence the difference between this Constitution and the
constitutions of other types is necessary. Englishmen had their way of dealing
with such problems. If they did not like to confer a right on the people then
in that case, they used to give from one hand and take away from another after
making verbal changes here and there. At the end of substantial Articles they
used to add such proviso and conditions which rendered them ineffective. If
there is any such defect in our Constitution, then it should be removed. Some
Members have criticised the Fundamental Rights and their provisos. I think,
perhaps due to official reasons certain provisos were considered unavoidable.
But I would like to say that such provisos should not find place in the
Constitution. For instance the right of acquiring, holding and disposing of
property has been conferred in the main clause but according to the condition
which has been laid down in article 5, it shall not affect the operation of
any existing law. Whether this clause affects any province or not, but it does
affect our Punjab. Land alienation Act is prevalent in the Punjab since a very
long time. According to this Act if a man actually tills the soil but does not
belong to the zamindar class, he can not acquire lands. It was proper that
this restriction should have been removed. But this has not been done. The
proviso attached to this Article have created confusion and it is not clear
whether this restriction has been removed. On this point clarification is
necessary. Punjab and the zamindars of Punjab have been very much affected by
this clause; for those who have money cannot acquire land due to this
restriction. The result is that those who want to dispose of their properties
do not get reasonable price. Punjab is the home of middle class zamindars. Due
to this law there is possibility that small zamindars will become smaller and
big zamindars will become bigger. I can not dilate on this point, because the
time at my disposal is short. All that I can say is that this state of affairs
is unnatural, and this restriction should have been removed.

There is yet another point. In article 22, clause (3), sub-clause (B), which
relates to Fundamental Rights, system of detention has been retained. To my
mind, in the Constitution of free India as has been pointed out by Pandit
Hirday Nath Kunzru--the system of detention should not be retained. We want to
inspire the people with confidence. We want them to feel that the Constitution
of free India is quite different. But such steps shall not inspire them with
the beliefs that now situation is altered. They shall not believe that they
are free and that a Constitution of free India is being framed. To my mind
none should be detained unless he has been tried in a court of law. Now, I
would like to say something regarding Directive Principles. These are great
principles and they are consistent with the high principles of our Congress
Government. The pledges which we had been giving to the people, have been
incorporated in this Constitution. But in Article 37 they have not been made
enforceable in a court of law. If owing to the expediencies of State,
retention of Article 37 is essential, then it is better not to include the
chapter on Directive Principles in the Constitution. If it is not possible,
then I would like to say with all the emphasis at my command that these
Directive Principles should be inserted under the Chapter on Fundamental
Rights. I would like to say one word regarding education. The provision for
"free and compulsory education for all children until they complete the age of
fourteen years" given in the Directive Principles should form the part of
Fundamental Rights. There is yet another provision in which children of tender
age for whom avocations are unsuited to their strength are protected. This is
important and should be inserted under the Chapter of Fundamental Rights.

Lastly I would like to say something relating to language. The language
question was held over for long. I am glad that at last it was settled and we
succeeded in taking a decision. I do not think after this decision, it is
proper to retain English for 15 years. To my mind it is the manifestation of
our slave mentality. We have achieved our freedom; but we are like that bird
which has lost its sense of freedom due to its long confinement in a cage. Now
the cage has been torn into pieces, but as we have lost our sense of freedom,
we are still under impression that we are in prison. I am not opposed to
English because it is a bad language. I am opposed to it, because it does not
look nice that we should retain this emblem of slavery in our country for
long. After we have decided to have one national language, retention of
English for such a long time would mean, paying a very high price for the
consent of those countrymen of ours who have accepted one national language
being compelled by persuasion, reasoning and love. Hindi has already been
declared as our national language and duration of 15 years can be regarded as
the life of a generation. I agree with Seth Govind Das that our Constitution
should be in our national language and it should be regarded as authentic. In
this connection Babu Ram Narain Singh has asked a pertinent question "Is this
Constitution being framed in India or in England?". To my mind, the
Constitution should be framed in our own national language. We should use this
language from now and if it is not possible to do so, then the maximum period
for its adoption should be reduced to 5 years. Such a course shall be source
of consolation for us and it will help us in getting rid of our slave
mentality quickly and it will enable us to do everything through the medium of
our national language.

I would like to add one word more. Sardar Hukam Singh and some other friends
have said that deletion of the provision relating to reservation in services
has created dissatisfaction among the Sikhs. As I have said, the minorities
have given their common consent to the abolition of separate electorates but I
must confess that the Sikhs and other minorities in some places are
dissatisfied because reservation in services has been removed. But to
incorporate such a thing in the Constitution would have been contradictory to
other articles. Now when the reservation has been abolished, every man shall
be appointed on his merit and thus everybody will be inspired with the desire
to make himself accomplished. This step has placed a responsibility on the
shoulders of the Majority Community, and minority communities also shall have
to feel the necessity of acquiring capability and capacity.

One word more and I have finished. In preparing the draft, Dr. Ambedkar and
members of the Drafting Committee have worked very hard. They deserve our
congratulations for preparing this Draft within such a short time and under
adverse circumstances. We shall be failing in our duty, if we do not pay our
debt of gratitude to our leaders and comrades. I mean our greatest leader
Mahatma Gandhi and those innumerable unknown warriors who have made sacrifices
for the freedom of this country---those who have left behind their wealth,
their homes and their all in Pakistan and thus did their best for the freedom
of this land. I agree with Shri Jaspat Rai Kapoor that attention should also
be paid to the refugee problem, the services rendered by them for the cause of
the country is praiseworthy. We cannot succeed in enforcing this Constitution
unless they are satisfied. With these words, I support this Constitution and I
think it will be acceptable to all. In the circumstances it was not possible
to frame a better Constitution.]

**Shri R.V. Dhulekar** ** **(United Provinces : General) : Mr. President, Sir I am here to support the Resolution that has been placed before this House by Dr. Ambedkar. The Constitution has been discussed at very great length in these three years and therefore, it is now too late to point out all the defects and the great points that are in the Constitution. I am satisfied that the Constitution on the whole is a very good one. Everybody knows that milk contains more than 75 per cent of water and if the balance is good, it maintains our body and strengthens it. It gives a longer life. Therefore I shall not try to dilate upon the defects. They may be more than 75 per cent---I do not mind---but I only mind that if the balance left is on the credit side and if the Constitution that we have prepared contains all the substances that are necessary for the living being, that is India, then I believe that it is good Constitution. I shall, therefore, give attention to the different points that are in favour of the Constitution and I lay on record that these points that I am going to submit before you are sufficient to guarantee to this country a long life of prosperity and happiness in this world.

The first point is this, that we have cleared the ground for establishing a
Secular state. I believe that religion as followed in India has always been
secular. It may seem contradictory but I shall say that in India we have never
followed any Book. We have never followed any cult; we have never believed in
any 'ism'. The Vedas and Upanishads all declare that never follow any single
person or a Book. Even in the Vedas wherever we find Manthras, holy scripts,
we find that any person who has ever visualized any great truth--that manthra
goes by his name. We have never been bigots in this country and we have never
been fanatics. I may say that people say that Buddhism was turned out of
India. I say no-Buddhism as an 'ism' only walked out of India but all the good
points in Buddhism remain. Animal sacrifice to a great extent had crept in
Hinduism. The influence that Buddha left was that animal sacrifice and bigotry
disappeared from India. I hope, Sir, that with the march of time, Islam will
also walk out of India in the sense that no fanaticm will remain in India, and
bigotry will disappear from amongst the Muslims of this country, and so I am
happy at the thought that we have laid down the principle that this country
will not be governed by any person, religion or cult or any ism at all.

The second point which is a very great achievement is adult suffrage. Every
person who is twenty-one years of age, who does not possess any of the
disqualifications enumerated in the Constitution, has an opportunity of rising
to the Presidentship, the highest honour that this country can give. And that
is a great thing. A man walking in the street can rise to the greatest height
that India can give him.

The third point is that we are going to have village panchayats, which is an
extension of democracy to the lowest ground. For some years we had democracy
in India, but the common man never felt that he possessed any democracy. As we
extend our democracy to the villages and establish the village panchayats, and
ask the common man to govern himself, I believe that India will be far better
than England or America.

The fourth point that I am going to say in favour of the Constitution is the
introduction of joint electorate. The minorities question has been washed
away. There are no separate electorates. Every human-being living in India,
who is born in India, is born equal, and because he professes a particular
religion or cult, he cannot claim any favouritism from the State. I am happy
at the thought that the great blemish, the blasphemy left by the British has
been washed away.

Then the fifth point is that the Indian States have been washed away. I am
happy that the princes, the ruling princes, have been magnanimous enough, and
have been great enough to sacrifice themselves. I know that but for that
sacrifice, our Honourable Patel would not have been so successful, and
therefore, I say that when I praise the sagacity and firmness of Sardar Patel,
I also praise those sons of India, the rulers, the princes, who sacrificed
themselves and came into line with the common man of this country.

Then, Sir, the sixth point is international peace. We pray for international
peace. We have always believed in it, and I am proud of it when I say that
India has never invaded any country outside its own boundaries, and I am happy
at that thought. Like Alexander the Great or the great robber, no king of
India marched on another land. Like Nadirshah or Mahmud Ghazni or Mohammad
Ghori, no king of India stepped out of this country for any conquest or
territory. I am happy at that thought. Therefore, when we lay it down that
international peace is our ultimate aim, I may say that the whole world must
believe us. When England or America says that they want peace, they are not
believed. Everybody is suspicious of them, because these people have never
proved in their life that what they said was true. England and other countries
have gone out of their countries and invaded other countries raided them and
robbed them. Therefore, when they say today in the U.N.O. that they love
peace, they are not believed. I say, Sir, that India will be believed. I say,
Sir, that India will be believed and every man in the world will believe when
we say that we want international peace. When Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru went to
America, why was he given such a great ovation? Whey did people throng in
thousands and lakhs to greet him? It was because he had a great history behind
him. They knew that he was coming from a country where Yagyavalkas, where
Mahatma Gandhi, Ramkrishna Paramhansa and where Swami Vivekananda and Sir
Rabindranath Tagore were born. These men went outside India with the mission,
not of the sword, but with that of peace. And therefore, when Pandit
Jawaharlal Nehru went to America, and he said that we stand for peace, he was
believed.

Now the seventh point in favour of the Constitution is that the residuary
powers will now rest in the Centre. That is a very good thing. In the
beginning, there were the words "India shall be a Union". I say that the word
"Union" is not a happy word. Union always means and connotes that there was
previous disunion, and therefore we are going to unite now. I say that it is
not a happy word. But when we came to the residuary powers, and our good-sense
prevailed, we put that the residuary powers should be concentrated in the
Centre. This means that we will have a strong centre and India will always
remain undivided and strong.

Then, Sir, the eighth point is the adoption of Hindi language as the national
language of India. Some people may say that for fifteen years English language
is going to rule. Others say, that there has been injustice, because Hindi
language has not been introduced from today. But I say that the resolution
that has been passed by us, is a great triumph. The British walked away from
India although they had remained in India for over two hundred years.
Similarly, I can assure all my friends, the lovers of Hindi, that the English
language will also walk away from India within one or two years, and after
five years it will be very difficult to find a letter read in the mufassils or
in the districts written in the English language. I am quite sanguine about it
and therefore, I feel that whatever restrictions have been placed, they are
not such that Hindi will not rise to its rightful height.

The ninth point that I urge is that some people say that there are no points
in favour of socialism or communism. I tell you, Sir, that any 'Ism' however
good it may be, creates fanaticism. Every 'Ism' is only a synonym for
fanaticism and bigotry. If our Constitution had placed that socialism was our
aim, if our Constitution had placed the communism was our goal, I assure you,
Sir, that within four or five years, thousands of fanatics would be going
about the country and saying that anybody who oppose this Constitution will be
killed and murdered. Why do not you go to Russia and see? Anybody who opposes
Communism stand condemned and he could be killed by anybody. So by not placing
any ''ism'' in our Constitutional aim, we have done a very wise thing; India
is no believer in any "ism". Therefore, I am happy that we have walked clear
of these "isms". We do not believe in any "isms". We believe in our personal
wisdom, in our combined wisdom, in our nation's wisdom, on our world's wisdom.
We always feel that if we 20, 50 or 100 people sit together, we shall create
something which will be better than any "ism"\--it may be future, past or
present.

The tenth point is this. This Constitution gives a full play for democracy.
What is democracy? I define it, in one word. Democracy is accommodation. Any
person who does not understand this small definition of democracy, can not be
a democrat at all. Any person who feels dissatisfied after going out of a
Committee and harps upon the fact that he was not heard and and keeps a
grievance going on, I say that he is not democratic. When 10 persons sit
together and apply their mind, they either agree or disagree. If they come to
a certain conclusion, I think and believe that it is a democratic resolution
and it must be obeyed. . Therefore, I say, when we 300 and more persons sat
together, applied our mind and produced a Constitution--I may not have had my
resolution passed and other people may feel that their resolution has not been
passed, that is not the point at issue-it is then the result of combined
attention and as such it must be obeyed. It is sacred.

Then there is the post of the President. This is a very great thing. In our
olden days also and in our religious books we always find that whenever we
perform any religious ceremony, we first of all always invoke Ganapati, the
Mighty Lord of the Universe and ask him to sit down and watch our functions,
guide our deliberations and our religious ceremony. Then we perform the
ceremony and in the end we say:

_gachha gachha sarashrestha _  
_ishta karya prasidridooyartha punaragamanayacha._

Translated it means : You have performed the desired work, kindly go, but come
again.

So following the holy tradition, I say, Sir, that you, Mr. President, have
guided our deliberations and you have given us this Constitution and now I
pray, Sir, that as the President of the Constituent Assembly you go, but as
the President of this Constitution, you please come.

I believe what the whole House is with me that you will be re-elected to this
high post.

**Mr. President **: You had better not to refer to such matters.

**Shri. R.V. Dhulekar : **In the end, I have to place my heartfelt thanks on record to you, Sir, the President and Dr. Ambedkar. The work that was before us was a very great risk. Dr. Ambedkar has performed a very great work. I would not say Herculean because that is a very small word. He has performed a task worthy of the great Pandava Bhim and worthy of the name that he has-Bhim Rao Ambedkar-. He has certainly justified his name-Bhim Rao and he has performed the task with clarity of vision, clarity of thought and clarity of language. Throughout, he was very clear. He always tried to understand the opponent's view and he always tried to accommodate him, and he always tried to put his own views in the most clear language. We are very grateful to him.

I am also very grateful to our Congress President - for some time our Mr.
Kripalani and later on our Honourable Pattabhi Sitaramayya. As a Congress
party man behind the scenes he had to conduct so many meetings and he
conducted them so well that the Congress people could come together and
produce a constitution for the acceptance of the whole of this House in such a
beautiful manner. Therefore, I am personally beholden to our Congress
President, Pattabhi Sitaramayya, and our grateful thanks are also now due to
all the Members who have co-operated with us.

In the end, Sir, I wish to place my obeisance to the great Mahatma Gandhi, the
Father of the Nation. With these words I shall finish:

Om shantih, Om Shantih, Om Shantih!

**Dr. P.K. Sen** **: **(Bihar : General) : I feel that I owe it to myself and to this August Assembly to offer a few humble observations at this momentous stage when we are ushering forth the Constitution to the nation and to the world at large.

Up to now, the Constitution has been a paper document and it will remain so
until the 26th January, 1950. Then will be the moment when it shall spring
into life, for it is not the Constitution on paper that will rule and regulate
the lives of the nation, individually and collectively, but it will be the
spirit of the people behind it that will really regulate, that will really
bring about the democracy which we are all trying to attain.

A great many things have occurred on the floor of this House which may seem to
indicate that there has been a departure from that spirit of union, which
alone can lead to success in democracy. I beg to differ. The bitter
controversies that have taken place on the floor of the House, the great
disputes which have arisen from time to time, only show that there are
differences of outlook, of views and opinions, but they do also point to the
fact that all have united together in a spirit of mutual understanding
"compromise" if you like so to call it and they have evolved together in a
spirit of harmony, this Constitution of 395 articles. When it springs to life,
when it starts operating, it shall become a live being and therefore, as all
living organisms are, it shall be subject to growth and development. Let us
hope that it shall never be subject to decay, but that this growth and this
development will go alongside of the growth and development of the people. The
people and the people alone can make good this Constitution, can make it
really applicable to the needs and requirements of the people.

A great many things have been said here in connection with this Constitution.
But I do feel that at the back of all that, one can find that there is more or
less accord and not discord. It has been called a "compromise" Constitution.
Well, "compromise" is really the essence of wisdom. If you can see things from
the opposite point of view also along with your own point of view, it is only
then that you can possibly unite not only to frame the Constitution but to
regulate the lives of the nation. Therefore, if it is a compromise
Constitution, I regard that as a matter of pride. You feel that there so many
things that have been done which are entirely of a revolutionary character.
You feel that you are on new ground altogether and if you have been able to
agree on those fundamental points, then the journey will be a triumphant
march.

First of all, we have abolished untouchability by law.

Then comes the disappearance of the Princely Order and the wonderful work of
integration of all these States.

Then comes the abolition of special electorates, the abolition of reservation
of seats and the wonderful phenomenon of the willing surrender of the rights
of certain minorities with a view to abolish reservation of seats. The
reservation of seats, no doubt, has been maintained in certain specific cases
and for a limited period, but that is understood and accepted by all of us
unanimously as a just and good provision.

Then comes the adjustment of the relations between the Centre and the
different units or provinces or States, and we find that there again, there is
a triumph, although there may be differences of view-point; some people are
inclined to think that the Centre has been given too much power, and that it
might really end in dictatorial supremacy; some on the other hand are inclined
to think that more power should have been given to the Centre.

But we have, as I understand it and as I submit earnestly, arrived at a point
when, again, it is the working of the thing which will really justify the
content of the Constitution. One after another, honourable Members have come
forward on the floor of the House to testify to their belief and faith in that
proposition, namely, that it is not the Constitution alone that can possibly
justify itself, but it is the Constitution and the people acting and reacting
upon each other that will lead to its ultimate justification or condemnation.

Then, Sir, I shall draw special attention to the determination of this House,
notwithstanding certain points of difference, unanimously to adopt a common
language for the whole of India, may be with due regard to mother tongues, may
be with due regard to other languages prevailing in certain particular tracts
of the country; but the determination to have a common language and a common
medium of expression for the whole of India is absolutely unanimous.

We come next to adult franchise, and before we launch our bark on the
uncharted ocean of adult franchise, we have to be careful as to how to
proceed. After all, ours is an infant democracy and we have yet to know the
shoals and sand banks and all the risks and perils of the voyage. We have yet
to know how to find out our coastline when we are in danger and therefore, it
is extremely necessary that there should be on the part of the Members of the
Constituents Assembly and also of all others a desire to work in such a manner
that this Constitution, based upon adult franchise, may really not only turn
out a success but may be an example to all the world.

Reference has been made more than once to the fact that the Panchayat system
should have been the basis, that the old idea which the Father of the Nation
had expressed very explicitly, namely, that there should be the panchayat at
the bottom and therefore the democracy broadbased in panchayats should rise to
a cone and that cone will be the perfection of democracy, that this idea
should have been followed. I do not see any reason why that should be barred
even now. Adult franchise is a thing, as I have said, uncharted and it is by
proper navigation that we have got to find out where the haven of safety lies.
Gradually, it is this panchayat system which I doubt not will come, in order
that it may be the basis of the democracy that we are going to usher forth.

Lastly, there are several things, a great many details, that come up to my
mind, but I know the time is valuable and I shall try to be as brief as
possible. What, after all, should be our guiding maximum? What should be the
armour of safety with which we shall fight the world on this basis of
democracy? There again, the Father of the Nation has more than once,
throughout his whole life, in fact in every act, in every word that he uttered
has laid down the lines- Truth and Freedom. We cannot be true to ourselves if
we are not true to others. We can not be freely individually unless every
individual regards and respects the freedom of his neighbour. If we realise
truly the essence of wisdom in this maxim of truth and freedom, it is only
then that we shall succeed, it is only then we shall be able to make this
Constitution a live Constitution. As reference has been made to it, I cannot
help repeating that there are trained soldiers in truth and freedom amongst
us. There are men who have sacrificed their all who can be our guides, our
pilots, who can therefore steer us to the right haven of safety. I do not
exclude from these those who in name belong to a different party as it were --
there is no party here. I include in this band of soldiers the Drafting
Committee headed by Dr. Ambedkar. These honourable Members have worked
unstintedly and have in every possible way served the Constituent Assembly in
a manner which entitles them to our utmost gratitude and I cannot help
expressing those sentiments at the present moment. Thanks are also due, Sir,
to you, as have been expressed every time by every Member --- it may sound a
repetition, nevertheless it is unavoidable. The manner in which you have given
perfect freedom frankness and opportunity for every man who wishes to
contribute to the debate, entitles you to our sincere gratitude.

There is one thing with which I shall conclude. It has often been referred to
here as a blot on the Constitution, namely that all contact with God or
religion has been as it were abandoned by it, as if it is a godless
Constitution, as if by calling it a Secular Democratic Republic it has
actually become secular or godless. I beg to submit that this is a
misconception. We have not banished religion by which I mean the innermost
faith of man in a Providence that shapes our ends and our personal
relationship between us and our Maker. It has not banished religion in that
sense. I has banished religions, that is to say the conflict between one
religion and another. But if once it is believed, once it is truly appreciated
that all religions are true, that not only is there an essence of truth in all
religions but that all religions are divinely sent and dispensations of God,
can there be any difficulty whatsoever, can there be any conflict whatsoever
between one religion and another? And if that comes to pass, when the nation
realises that, the word "secular" may in due course even be removed from the
Constitution. For then it will be no longer necessary in the exigencies of the
case in order to imply, in order to proclaim that there shall be no preference
given to any religion, any faith, any belief, any form of worship, it has been
found necessary to call it secular. But I truly believe that the Providence
that shapes our ends is over us and will guide the destinies of the nation
through this very Constitution which is called secular only in name. If there
is the sense of mutual understanding, of compromise, if you please so to call
it, of mutual accommodation, we shall go together. If there is difference in
fundamentals, it were better that there should be conflict between the two
parties-without that perhaps there can be no good coming out of it. And if
there be conflict unavoidable on fundamentals, on essentials, on unavoidables,
if there be conflict we need not worry for even between the fight of the gods
and demons, as we call them Suras and Asuras, even out of that fight came up
ambrosia and nectar and the poison that came out was sucked up by Nilakantha
in order that he might make his creation poison-free. Do we not believe that
today when we are on the point of ushering forth this Constitution the same
Providence which is hovering over us is present here, and if there be any
danger, if there be anything untoward, there is He to take up the poison, to
make this poison-free.

**Shri B.P. Jhunjhunwala** (Bihar : General) : Mr. President, Sir, there have been various criticisms of this Constitution and one of the criticisms levelled against the Drafting Committee is that they have done nothing more than adopt the Government of India Act of 1935. If this criticism can be levelled against the Drafting Committee, I should say it is most uncharitable. On the other hand, I would say that before adopting any article the Drafting Committee has taken great pains to go through all the Constitutions of the world and looked into all the amendments with great care both from the point of view of theory as well as from the point of view of their practical application. If they have not accepted any theories it is not because these were not in the Government of India Act of 1935, through those theories were applicable and right, but because they could not be practically applied here under the present condition. I have heard people talk that nothing will come out from the administration under this Constitution because it is nothing but the Government of India Act of 1935, such a conception is due to their wrong approach, very wrong approach. Why should we give them up if there are good things in anything the British Government had done? They might have had different objects, but whatever they did, outwardly, there was nothing much to be said against it. We have simply to change our approach and object and then work the Constitution and we shall find that all that is provided in our Preamble will be attained, but if we proceed with some sort of prejudice then it will be difficult. Sir, the Drafting Committee has taken great pains in going through, as I have said, all the Constitutions of the world and have presented to us a Constitution under which we can carry on most conveniently as we are accustomed to.

The other point that is being discussed and criticised is that much more power
has been given to the Centre than necessary and that all talk of provincial
autonomy has been forgotten and power has been taken away from the provinces.
This is also very wrong. Under the existing conditions and circumstances of
the country and the world forces which are working at present it was very
necessary that this much power should have been taken by the Centre. Sir,
behind the framing of the Constitution we had our leaders who had effaced
themselves and who never thought that in this life they will realise their
dream of independence and see that the people of India gained what was
necessary for their happiness and future prosperity. Sir, such people are now
at the helm of affairs. If they have decided to give more power to the centre
it is not because of their love for power. They have kept only one thing in
view and that is the good of the country and the happiness of the people. Sir,
it is not the form of Government that matters. The thing that matters is as to
how the country is administered. When we have got such people at the helm of
affairs who, as I said before, had effaced themselves, had never thought that
in this life of theirs they will have any power or that they will see their
country in this prosperous condition, we should have no apprehension that
anything will be done by the Centre which will be against the interests of our
country. History shows that even under the monarchical form of Government we
had monarchs who respected the feelings and liberties of the people.
Therefore, there is no reason why we should have any apprehension that
anywhere in the provinces or in the Centre our liberties will be curtailed. If
any restriction is imposed on our liberty at any item I have no doubt that
will be for the good of the people that it will be so imposed and not for mere
satisfaction of exercising power.

Sir, I do not believe in the theory propounded here that that everything
should be centralised and that the whole country should be governed from the
Centre. But I agree that powers should be given to the Centre so that in times
of emergency they can be utilised for the benefit of the people. Sir, the
Centre should have only such power as is necessary and cannot be exercised by
its component governing parts, for the preservation of the unity and
integration of the whole of India. Every other power should be, as much as
possible, decentralised and given to the unit of a village or groups of
villages what to say to Provinces. With that purpose in view, I had given
notice of an amendment to the Preamble that 'after the word "Republic" the
words "to be worked on the basis of autonomous village units or groups of
villages organised on the principle of self-sufficiency as far as practicable"
be added. The other thing I had said in the Preamble was that the noble idea
of self-restraint, simplicity and selfless work inculcated by the Father of
the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi, should be introduced by means of an amendment to
the Preamble. The object of the amendment was that when we are going to have a
democratic form of Government we should have as real democracy as possible by
giving as much power to as small as unit as practicable so that the
individuals composing the unit have easy and ready remedy which is possible
under village republic. By other amendment I wanted to introduce in the
Constitution, guiding principles and forms of gratifications for our people to
cultivate and possess, in the absence of which gratifications the other
objective given in the preamble of the Constitution cannot be achieved. But
this was not accepted.

Sir, regarding the village republic, I want to draw the attention of the House
to one matter. I do not know whether it is the opinion of the Honourable Dr.
Ambedkar or of the Drafting Committee as a whole that Dr. Ambedkar voiced
while introducing the Draft Constitution for second reading:

Another criticism against the draft Constitution is that not part of it
represents the ancient polity of India. It is said that the new Constitution
should have been drafted on the ancient Hindu model of a State and that,
instead of incorporating western theories, the new Constitution should have
been raised and built up on village panchayats and district panchayats. There
are others who have taken a more extreme view. They do not want any Central or
Provincial Governments. They just want India to contain so many village
governments. The love of the intellectual Indian for the village community is
of course infinite if not pathetic". Then Dr. Ambedkar has given a quotation.

"It is largely due to the fulsome praise bestowed upon it by Metcalfe who
described them as little republics having nearly everything that they want
within themselves, and almost independent of any foreign relations. The
existence of these village communities each one forming a separate little
State in itself has according to Metcalfe contributed more than any other
cause to the preservation of the people of India through all the revolutions
and changes which they have suffered, and is in a high degree conducive to
their happiness and to the enjoyment of a great portion of the freedom and
independence. No doubt the village communities have lasted where nothing else
lasts. But those who take pride in the village communities do no care to
consider what little part they have played in the affairs and destiny of the
country; and why? Their part in the destiny of the country has been well
described by Metcalfe himself who says:"

Then further on, Dr. Ambedkar says:

"Such is the part the village communities have played in the history of their
country. Knowing this, what pride can one feel in them? They have survived
through all vicissitudes may be a fact. But mere survival has no value. the
question is on what plane they have survived. Surely on low, on a selfish
level. I hold that these village republics have been the ruination of India. I
am therefore surprised that those who condemn Provincialism and communalism
should come forward as champions of the village. What is the village but a
sink of localism, a den of ignorance, narrow-mindedness and communalism? I am
glad that the Draft Constitution has discarded the village and adopted the
individual as its unit."

Sir, I only say that nothing can be more uncharitable and unjust to the
villagers than what Dr. Ambedkar has said. Sir, it is not only uncharitable
but it is not based on facts. Dr. Ambedkar himself admits that they have
survived and they have kept the independence of India. He says that mere
survival is not enough, mere survival has no value. What is the position
today? We have to go about begging even for our food-stuffs. We would have
been nowhere even with this Independence, but for preservation of village
economy at least in matters of food, and it is only by introduction of village
units in matters of economy that we shall be able to keep up our independence
in real sense of the term and survive. It is because of the preservation of
the villages that we survived and lived happily. This has been admitted by Dr.
Ambedkar. Today we can not produce what we want. Whatever wealth in the
villages there was has been either taken away or whatever wealth in the form
of land or in the form of cattle was there has deteriorated and vanished. The
land which was there has become barren. Why? Whatever manure was there, the
land, was being exported because of the foreign trade. All the bones and all
the dead animals, whatever was there, used to be left in the fields and used
to decompose very slowly and keep up the organic value of the land and the
fertility of the soil. Regarding cattle, when Lord Linlithgow came, he started
at campaign for bullocks breeding, i.e. for good breeding. This lasted for
about a year or so, but what happened during the war was that all the best
cattle of the country were slaughtered for the military, for the preservation
of the British empire. When Dr. Ambekdar says that the villagers and the
village republics did not take part in the preservation of the country, I
would enquire of him as to whether he has read the history of the non-
cooperation movement. If he has read, he will know that the villagers
responded very well to the call of our able leaders who effaced themselves and
who sent to the villages thinking that is the villages who will bring
independence to the country The villagers played the most important part in
the freedom struggle. It is most uncharitable to say that the villagers and
the village republics have done nothing and that they have brought about the
ruination of the country. It is not the village republics who have brought
about the ruination of the country, but is the other way about. It is the
centre under the British rule which brought about the ruination of the
villages which comprise 90 per cent. of the population of the whole of India;
and has reduced the whole of India to a beggar's condition for their
requirements. At that time of course at the Centre were not there. There were
other people. They had some other purpose to serve. Now the people of the
country are at the helm of affairs and things should be different now. Sir, I
would say that the if we have to improve the economy of the country, if we
have to see that the people are happy, we have, not only from the pint of
ideology but as a practical proposition, to organise the villages on the
ancient basis. The village panchayats should be organised on the basis on
which they used to work in the past. The economy of the country should be
decentralised as soon as possible. The sooner we do it, the sooner we give
attention to this, the better it will be for us. Sir, though it is not
mentioned in the main part of the Constitution and the Constitution is not
based on village republics as units of the Centre: in the directive
principles. It is provided that village panchayats should be organsied with us
much powers as possible, and I would request our leaders that this thing
should be given effect to as soon as possible in a way as if it were
incorporated in the Constitution itself. It is only then, Sir, that we shall
be able to realise our real independence. With these words, I support the
motion.

**Shri Alladi Krishnaswami Ayyar** **: **(Madras : General) : Sir, in supporting the motion of the Honourable Dr. Ambedkar for the adoption of the Constitution, I crave the indulgence of the House for a short while. This Constitution has been settled by the Constituent Assembly in the light of the recommendations of the various committees appointed by this House and the draft as originally submitted by the Drafting Committee and as revised later. In the course of my remarks, I should like to draw the attention of the House to what I consider to be salient features of the Constitution by some of the members. The Constitution as it has finally emerged, I submit, truly reflects the spirit of the Objectives Resolution with which this Assembly started its work and the Preamble of the Constitution which is mainly founded on the Objectives Resolution.

Firstly, in spite of the ignorance and illiteracy of the large mass of the
Indian people, the Assembly has adopted the principle of adult franchise with
an abundant faith in the common man and the ultimate success of democratic
rule and in the full belief that the introduction of democratic government on
the basis of adult suffrage will bring enlightenment and promote the well-
being, the standard of life, the comfort and the decent living of the common
man. The principle of adult suffrage was adopted in no lighthearted mood but
with the full realisations of its implications. If democracy is to be broad
based and the system of governments that is to function is to have the
ultimate sanction of the people as a whole, in a country where the large mass
of the people are illiterate and the people owning property are so few, the
introduction of any property or educational qualifications for the exercise of
the franchise would be a negation of the principles of democracy. If any such
qualifications were introduced, that would have disfranchised a large number
of the labouring classes and a large number of women-folk. It can not after
all be assumed that a person with a poor elementary education and with a
knowledge of the three Rs. is in a better position to exercise the franchise
than a labourer, a cultivator or a tenant who may be expected to know what his
interests are and to choose his representatives. Possibly a large-scale
universal suffrage may also have the effect of rooting out corruption what may
turn out incidental to democratic election. This Assembly deserves to be
congratulated on adopting the principle of adult suffrage and it may be stated
that never before in the history of the world has such an experiment been so
boldly undertaken. The only alternative to adult suffrage was some kind of
indirect election based upon village community or local bodies and by
constituting them into electoral colleges, the electoral colleges being
elected on the basis of adult suffrage. That was not found feasible.

Realising in full that the communal electorate and democracy can not co-exist
and that communal electorate was a device adopted by the British Imperialists
to prevent the free growth of democracy on a healthy and sound basis, this
Assembly under the able leadership of our Prime Minister and Sardar Patel, has
done away with communal electorates while making some special provisions to
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes on the basis of joint electorates for a
temporary period. As Sardarji has rightly pointed out in his memorable speech
on the occasion, we have to demonstrate to the world, to the class of people
who have flourished and who have been nurtured on communal claims, our genuine
faith in the fundamental principles of democracy and in the establishment of a
secular state without distinction of caste, creed or class.

Closely allied with the principles underlying the articles of the Constitution
dispensing with communal electorates are the provisions in the Chapter on
fundamental rights that every citizen shall have equality of opportunity in
matters relating to employment or appointment to any office under the State,
that no citizen shall on grounds of religion, race, castes, sex, descent,
place of birth etc. be ineligible for or discriminated against in respect of
any employment or office under the State. I am leaving them out of account the
special provision in favour of backward classes of citizens. In this
connection it may be interesting to note that there is no such declaration in
similar terms even in the Constitution of the U.S.A. The Fourteenth Amendment
in the United States Constitution which was intended to remove the disability
of the Negroes, has not, as experience has shown, served the purpose in the
United States and the Fifteenth amendment deals only with the right to vote.
Therefore, we may well claim that our Constitution is much more, democratic,
much more rooted in the principles of democracy than even the advanced
Constitution of America. The abolition of untouchability is another notable
step taken by this Assembly.

The liquidation of a large number of Indian States scattered like islands over
the length and breadth of this land, their merger with the neighbouring
provinces, has been effected under the able leadership of Sardar Patel. In the
result the States have been considerably reduced in number and either as
individual States or as comprising groups of States they have been brought
into the orbit of the Indian Union. Their Constitutions have been brought into
line with the Constitutions of States in Part I and they have become units of
the Indian Union on the same terms as the States in Part I and they have
become units of the Indian Union on the same terms as the States in Part I so
that we are in a position to say that all the units of the Union occupy the
same position in regard to it excepting for certain specific transitional
provisions. The Constitution does not permit the States which have acceded to
the Union to secede from it. Their association with the Union is inseparable
and they have become an integral part of the Indian Union. There is no going
back. The magnitude of this achievement can not be overestimated when we
remember that the existence of a large number of such States has been put
forward always as an excuse by the British Imperialists for the withholding of
freedom from India. The Act of 1935 far from abolishing this distinction
served to perpetuate the distinction.

After weighing the pros and cons of the Presidential System as obtaining in
America and the Cabinet system of Government obtaining in England and the
Dominions, taking into account also the working of responsible Government in
the Indian Provinces for some years and the difficulty of providing for a
purely presidential type of Government in the States in Part II, (now part IB)
this Assembly has deliberately adopted the principle of responsible Government
both in the States and in the Centre. At the same time the Assembly was quite
alive to the fact that a good number of States in Part IB were unaccustomed to
any democratic or responsible Government and with a view of ensure its success
and efficient working the early states of the Union Government is entrusted
with the power of intervention while there is a failure or deadlock in the
working of democratic machinery.

My honourable Friend Prof. K.T. Shah in expatiating upon the merits of the
Constitutional system based upon the principle of separation, did not fully
realize the inevitable conflict and deadlock which such a system might result
in a country circumstanced as India is. The breakdown provisions in the
Constitution are not intended in any way to hamper the free working of
democratic institutions or responsible Government in the different units, but
only to ensure the smooth working of the Government when actual difficulties
arise in the working of the Constitution. There is no analogy between the
authority exercised by the Governor or the Governor-General under the
authority of the British Parliament in the Constitution of 1935 and the power
vested in the Central Government under the new Constitution. The Central
Government in India in future will be responsible to the Indian Parliament in
which are represented the people of the different units elected on adult
franchise and are responsible to Parliament for any act of theirs. In one
sense the breakdown provision is merely the assumption of responsibility by
the Parliament at Delhi when there is an impasse or breakdown in the
administration in the Units.

In regard to citizenship, the Constitution deliberately adopts the principle
of single citizenship for the whole of India and departs from a dual
citizenship, a common feature of may Federations. In this respect the Indian
Constitution is in advance of some of the Federal Constitutions. It is hoped
that that will lead to the consolidation of the Indian Union. The Constitution
does not purport to enact a detailed law as to citizenship, but leaves it for
the future Parliament of India to frame such a law.

The Constitution has accorded the proper place to the Judiciary as it should
in a written and especially in a Federal Constitution. In the language of the
Federalist, in America the complete independence of the court of justice is
particularly essential to the proper working of a Federal Constitution. The
limitation on the different organs of the State can be preserved in no other
way than through the medium of courts and according to President Wilson, the
courts are the balance-wheel of the Constitution. The Supreme Court in India
under the Indian Constitution, as this House is aware, has wider powers than
the highest courts in any other known Federation including that of the U.S.A.
where the Supreme Court is not a general court of appeal. The Supreme Court is
a court of appeal in all civil cases from every High court including the High
Courts in the States in part IV. It is the ultimate arbiter in all matters
involving the interpretation of the Constitution. It has a very wide revisory
jurisdiction over all tribunals even if they be not courts in the strict sense
of the term. Unlike the United States Supreme Court, it has an advisory
jurisdiction similar to that exercised by the Supreme Court of Canada under
the Canadian Supreme Court. It has original jurisdiction to issue prerogative
writs throughout the length and breadth of India. It is an interstatal court
competent to decide questions _inter se_ as between States. Even in regard to
criminal matters, the Supreme Court is in a position to grant special leave
and can also exercise criminal appellate jurisdiction in certain specific
classes of cases. The criticism, if at all, can only be, not that the powers
of the Supreme Court are not wide enough, but that they are too wide.

The provision relating to the High Courts are in the main modelled on the
existing provisions except for the fact that certain inhibitions on the
jurisdiction have been removed. They have henceforward jurisdiction to issue
prerogative writs throughout the areas subject to their appellate
jurisdiction. The anomaly of the High Courts not having any jurisdiction in
matters relating to revenue has also been removed, and the powers of
superintendence over subordinate courts and tribunals have been restored. Care
has been taken to see that in the matter of selection to the highest court,
the President has the benefit of the advice of those most competent to advise
him on the subject. With a view to keep the High Court outside the range of
provincial politics, the High Courts have in important respects been brought
under the jurisdiction of the National Government. While there can be no two
opinions on the need of the maintenance of judicial independence, both for
safeguarding of individual liberty and the proper working of the Constitution,
it is also necessary to keep in view one important principle. The doctrine of
independence is not to be raised to the level of a dogma so as to enable the
judiciary to function as a kind of super-legislature or super-executive. The
judiciary is there to interpret the Constitution or adjudicate upon the rights
between the parties concerned. As has been pointed out recently in a leading
decision of the Supreme Court, the Judiciary as much as the Congress and the
Executive, are depending for its efficient and proper functioning, upon the
co-operation of the other two.

The criticism in regard to Fundamental Rights has been that the exceptions
strike at the very foundation of the rights. This criticism is entirely
without foundation. The exceptions and qualifications introduced into the
articles reproduce in statutory form the well-recognised exceptions and
limitations on the Fundamentals Rights dealt with in the article. Similar
restrictions have been read by the Supreme Court in the United States
Constitution which in general terms provides for these rights. Our
Constitution instead of leaving it to the courts to read the necessary
limitations and exceptions, seeks to express in a compendious form the
limitations and exceptions. It is common knowledge that freedom of speech and
of the Press has been interpreted by the Supreme Court of the United States as
not to prevent legislation prohibiting intimidation by speech or writing or
preventing the publication of indecent matter, or prevent the enactment of
laws in the exercise of the police power of the State if the State can find a
sufficient social interest for so doing. Similarly, religious liberty has been
held not to protect the citizen against unsocial acts. The privilege of
Assembly and public meeting does not stand in the way of the United States or
the individual States exercising social control of assemblage of people in the
interests of the common good. In the final form in which the article has
emerged, this Assembly kept in view the need for drawing a line between
personal liberty and the need for social control. While not departing from the
principle that a person is not to be deprived of his property without
compensation, the Constitution has invested the Parliament with the power to
formulate the principles in regard to compensation with due regard to the
nature, history and incidents of the property concerned. Being fully alive to
the need for urgent agrarian reform affecting a large mass of tenantry, this
Assembly, after due deliberation, has inserted certain special provisions to
prevent the legality of the measures undertaken being questioned from court to
court while at the same time providing the necessary safeguards for protecting
the interests of the parties affected.

In the chapter on Fundamental Rights, there is one other matter which requires
more then a passing notice. Clause (4) of article 22 has been animadverted
upon as if it were a charter to the Executive to detain a person for three
months. There is no such thing. The whole of article 22 is designed to secure
against any abuse of the provisions of article 21 which says in general terms
that "No person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except
according to procedure established by law". If article 21 stood by itself, it
may authorise an indefinite detention if only it conforms to the procedure
established by law. Article 22 has been put in to prevent any such indefinite
detention. The Constituent Assembly which was quite alive to the dangers
confronting the new State could not rule out detention altogether.

The Directive principles of State policy, I should think, are also an
important feature of the Constitution. Having regard to the wide nature of the
subjects dealt with in these articles and the obvious difficulty in making the
subjects dealt with by these articles justiciable, they have been classed as
directive principles of state policy. The principles of Social policy have
their basis in the preamble to the Constitution and the Objectives Resolution.
Article 37 in express terms lays down that the principles laid down therein
are nevertheless fundamental in the governance of the country and it shall be
the duty of the State to apply these principles in making laws. No ministry
responsible to the people can afford lightheartedly to ignore the provisions
in Part 5 of the Constitution.

In regard to the distribution and allocation of legislative power, this
Assembly has taken into account the political and economic conditions
obtaining in the country at present and has not proceeded on any a _priori_
theories as to the principles of distribution in the constitution of a Federal
Government. In regard to distribution, the Center is invested with residuary
power, specific subjects of national and all-India importance being expressly
mentioned. A large list of subjects has been included in the Concurrent List
to enable the Centre to intervene wherever there is necessity to intervene and
override State legislation, though normally when the coast is clear, it would
be open to the State legislatures to legislate. The existence of a large list
of Concurrent subjects is calculated to promote harmony between the Centre and
the units, and avoid the necessity of the courts having to resolve the
conflict if there is to be only a two fold division of subjects. In order to
meet unforeseen national emergencies and economic situations, special
provisions have been inserted providing for Central intervention. In this
connection, it has to be remembered that the whole concept of federalism in
the modern world is undergoing a transformation. As a result of the impact of
social and economic forces, rapid means of communication and the necessarily
close relation between the different units in matters of trade and industry,
federal ideas themselves are undergoing a transformation in the modern world.
The Rowell Score Commission in Canada and the Royal Commission appointed to
report on the working of the Australian Constitution suggested various
remedies to get over the difficulties in the working of a federal Government.
The problem is one to be faced by each country according to the peculiar
conditions obtaining there, according to the particular exigencies of the
particular country, not according to _a priori_ or theoretical considerations.

In dealing with a matter like this, we cannot proceed on the footing that
federalism must necessarily be of a defined or a standard type. Even in regard
to the Constitution of Canada, two such authorities as Lord Haldane and Lord
Watson were sharply divided, the former holding that the Constitution is not
federal and the latter expressly laying down the opposite view. The crucial
question to consider, shorn of all theories, is, "Are the National and the
State Governments related to one another as Principal and Delegate?" So long
as they can exercise full authority within the orbit of their established
jurisdiction, there is no reason to deny the federal character of the
Constitution.

I do not subscribe to the view that the Centre has been made too strong at the
expense of the Union. In the legislative sphere there has been not much change
in the list of subjects allotted to the units. The units have unrestricted
executive power in the provincial field. Even in regard to the Concurrent
subjects, the executive power continue to be vested in the units though there
is a power of central intervention when the exigencies of the State demand it.
The emergency powers vested in the Union can not by their very nature be of
normal or ordinary occurrence.

In regard to the taxing power, while the final allocation is open to further
examination as the result of the report of the Statutory Commission to be
appointed under the terms of the Constitution, the articles in the
Constitution relating to the taxing power taken into account the general
economic condition and financial position of the different units and the
tendency prevailing in most modern Federations of the Central Government
acting as the sole taxing agency in the interest of the country while
provision is made for the division or the distribution of the proceeds to the
different units, as also for the grant of subsidies.

The Constituent Assembly has spent considerable time and attention over the
subject of inter-state trade relations. The Assembly while adhering to the
principle that freedom of trade between the different units is indispensable
to the proper functioning of the Union, has made the inter-State relations
much more elastic and flexible in our Constitution than in some of the known
Federal Constitutions, to suit the exigencies and economic conditions of a
vast continent like India.

The Constituent Assembly being thoroughly alive to the importance of a State
language for the whole of India with a view to consolidate and unify the
nation and recognizing the importance of regional languages in so vast a
country, has evolved a plan for Hindi becoming the State language of India as
early as possible. At the same time the Constitution has not lost sight of the
need of English for legal purposes for some time and for scientific and
international purposes in the world as constituted today.

The criticism that the Constitution as it has emerged is far too detailed and
elaborate does not merit serious consideration. If as in other Constitutions
the constitution and powers of the High Court and of the Supreme Court have
been left for normal ordinary parliamentary legislation, if the provisions,
for electoral machinery are dropped out, if the guarantees provided in the
matter of salaries to judges and civil services were omitted, if the existing
administrative machinery which has been working is ignored, if no special
provision is to be made for Scheduled Areas and Scheduled Tribes, there would
be absolutely no difficulty in cutting down the provisions of the Constitution
and reducing the number of articles. But for the smooth and efficient working
of a democratic machinery, it was felt that unless these provisions were
contained in the Constitution itself, an infant democracy might find itself in
difficulties and the smooth and efficient working of the Constitution might be
jeopardised. There has been insistence on the part of various interests and
sufficient safeguards must be inserted in the Constitution itself and even
some of the members of this Assembly who, as a matter of abstract principle,
are willing to subscribe to the principle of a few main provisions alone being
inserted in the Constitution, not a little contributed to the detailed
provisions.

In the course of the discussion during the Third Reading, there has been some
reference to the subject of India's position as a member of the Commonwealth.
On this subject I have already stated my views when the matter came up for
discussion before this Assembly. It is unnecessary to remind the House that
there is no article in the Constitution referring to this matter. The
membership of the Commonwealth depends on the willing co-operation and consent
of the two countries, independent in every respect of each other.

Mr. President, I have omitted one point while I was on the subject of
Fundamental Rights and I should like to refer to it. While religious freedom
is guaranteed to every individual and every religious persuasion, the State
does not identify or ally itself with any particular religion or religious
belief. There is no such thing as State Religion in India.

Altogether it may be claimed that the Constitution gives sufficient scope for
the achievement by the Indian Republic of all those great objects which are
contained in the Preamble to the Constitution. The Constitution contains
within itself the necessary elements of growth, flexibility and expansion.
While it is not committed to any particular economic reorganisation of
society, the people are free to adjust and mould the economic conditions for
their betterment in any manner they choose. To a large extent any Constitution
depends upon the people who work it. It is the human element that after all is
the most important in the working of any institution. It is common knowledge
that when the final Constitution of America was adopted there was very little
enthusiasm for it and several communications had to be addressed in the
'Federalist' to commend the Constitution to the American people. And yet at
the present day the Constitution is looked upon with the same spirit and
reverence as the Ark of the Covenant in the Bible. Similar is the experience
in Canada and in Australia. The experience of other countries has shown that
Constitution which have been hailed with universal acclamation have proved
utter failures. Our Constitution is much more flexible than many written and
Federal Constitutions. An easy and flexible method of amendment has been
provided for. But that does not mean that amendment must be undertaken
lightheartedly. The people will then have no other work to do but mending and
amending, the Constitution.

Before I conclude, I would be failing in my duty if I do not express my high
appreciation of the skill and ability with which my friend the Honourable Dr.
Ambedkar has piloted this Constitution and his untiring work as the Chairman
of the Drafting Committee. Latterly I know he was ably assisted by my friend
Mr. T.T. Krishnamachari. I would also be failing in my duty if I do not give
my tributes to the services of Sir B.N. Rau and to the untiring energy,
patience, ability and industry of the Joint Secretary, Mr. Mukherjee and his
lieutenants.

In the end, you will pardon me, Sir, if I make some reference to your work in
this Assembly as it may savour of flattery. You have given your whole life to
the service of this country and this is the crowning act. There is none who is
held in greater esteem and in love than yourself and you have showed yourself
to be the worthy President of the Assembly. I am particularly grateful to you
because on account of my state of health you have been pleased to permit me to
address from my seat and I am also thankful to the Members of this House for
the indulgence they have extended to me in that respect. It is some
consolation to me that I might have been of some little use in the work of the
various committees and in the work of this Assembly. (Cheers).

**Mr. Hyder Husein** (United Provinces : Muslim): Mr. President, Sir, I rise to lend my shoulder to the great wheel of progress which is depicted on the National Flag empanelled all round this Hall and which is reflected in this monumental work which is to adorn the Statute Book of free India in a few days' time. It is a landmark in the Indian renaissance, and a symbol of progress in political thought. The French slogan of liberty, equality and fraternity, brought about a revolution in human minds and carried the torch of freedom far and wide. That great nation laid the foundation of modern democracy in their own country and supported it in other freedom- loving countries. Their magnificent gift of the statue of liberty, presented to the American nation bears testimony to their love of freedom. The Americans, with their characteristic thoroughness, have treasures it and installed it on one of the islands on the south of New York, and it has become the object of great attraction to the visitor. The world can not remain static, and with the development of the human mind, there is the evolution of political ideals as well. We have gone beyond the French conception of democracy and added justice to their trio, and given it the first place in the Preamble to our Constitution. The preamble is the key to the meaning and the scope of a statute and we find the spirit of the preamble pervading all the provisions that claim our Constitution to be an improvement on the existing constitutions of the world, consistently with our indigenous requirements. The mass of literature collected and circulated amongst the Members bears testimony to the wide field of investigation into the Constitutions of the countries spread all over the globe. The proceedings of this House constitute an eloquent record of the full use of those materials by the Drafting Committee and the honourable Members of the House. My esteemed and learned Friend Shri. Alladi Krishnaswami Ayyar has just before me given further proof of it in his masterly resume of the entire Constitution, and it will be presumptuous on my part to repeat the process again before this House.

It is true that a good deal of criticism has been levelled against the
Constitution and I consider it only right that it should have been so. These
criticisms and long discussions have resulted in a great improvement on the
original draft. Such differences as still exist in the minds of some of us
have to be consigned to the cold storage, at least for the time being. We much
realise that the time for criticism is over, and the time for implementation
has arrived. It is our duty to make a united effort to give effect to it, both
in letter and in spirit. It is then and then only, that our country can march
forward with long strides.

Our Constitution is fairly flexible and I am certain that it could be worked
with any known ideology before the Government. Constitutions are not made for
any particular party or any fixed programme. A written Constitution is a
reflection of the aspirations of a nation, and a message to the world as to
what we are about. Our Constitution has given us the base, and we have to
build an edifice which would be worthy of our ancient heritage. Let us all
join in this great task. The country demands the services of every man, woman
and child who calls himself an Indian. It is then and then only that the dream
of some of us can be realised, the dream of the great Architect of New India
who is, alas, no more with us, but whose portrait sheds light on our
proceedings.

We have reached this stage after tremendous sacrifices. We should not while
away in Scholastic discussions and parliamentary debates. Our struggle has
been long and tedious. The honourable Member from Bengal, Mr. Maitra mentioned
that period to be two generations. He is right in a way. But I would like to
take it further backward to the middle of the last century. At that time it
took the form of a revolt after a century of exploitation by the foreign
bureaucrats. It was a part of the great nationalist movement of the nineteenth
century. It failed and was followed by such repression that it took a
generation for the Indian genius to re-assert itself. This time it took a more
systematic and organised shape under the name of the Indian National Congress.
This was the beginning of the era to which Mr. Maitra referred. The struggle
was fraught with difficulties and the path was full of pitfalls and the task
hazardous. But our great leaders followed it resolutely and courageously. The
pace was considerably accelerated by the new turn that the Father of our
Nation gave to the Indian Politics. Blessed be his name. Within the short
space of a generation we reached the stage of acquiring freedom even before it
was granted by the foreigner. This Constituent Assembly was formed in 1946 to
frame a Constitution for the undivided India. Enormous changes took place
during this period. With a view to the early recognition of our freedom, our
leaders went the length of agreeing even to a partition of the country. But no
one at that time realised that this would be a signal for man to turn a wolf
to brother man, as the great English philosopher Hobbes said two hundred years
ago--_Homo Hominis Lupus_. This is not the place to describe those horrible
atrocities, but the misfortune is that some of its baneful effects still
persist and affect even our daily life. The country has succeeded in solving
much more complicated problems and I am sure it will rise to the occasion and
get over this hurdle which stand in the way of national advancement.

This is not the stage, nor the time for criticising the various provisions of
this Constitution. There has been a good deal of it, both inside and outside
this hall. My answer is that this is the best that the available talent in the
country could produce, and if we expect anything more, we have to produce men
of greater intellect and scholarship in the land, if that is possible in the
near future. I am however, bound to say that the product is one of which any
nation can be proud. Let us then, pledge ourselves to give it our unstinted
support, without any mental reservations whatsoever. We have attained
political freedom, and the need of the day is the economic uplift of the
country, as for this alone freedom was worth fighting for. This requires
greater labour, greater work and greater sacrifice than even the fight for
freedom. It is not so difficult to destroy a thing as it to construct it. With
the termination of foreign domination in the land, we have full opportunity
for constructive work. Let us then strive to build our India which will be
worthy of its past and a pride for the future.

In these days of internationalism we cannot isolate our country from the rest
of the world. We have to march forward in keeping with every other nation on
the globe and then only our country can occupy its rightful and honoured place
in the comity of nations.

Unfortunately my own contribution to the framing of the Constitution has been
practically nil. I came in at a stage when nothing substantial could be done.
It is my luck to be associated with the Indian Constitutional advancement only
at the stage of the Third Reading. I happened to be in England on my way back
from the United States of America when the Indian Independence Act was before
the House of Commons and there also I could attend only the last stages of the
Bill. The Bill was passed in my presence and I got the thrill a few hours
before my countrymen got it here. I have been treasuring it as a memorable day
of my life. Likewise it so happens that I am associated with the framing of
the Constitution also in its final stages. I am here on the bidding of one who
is held in universal love and affection in my province, and one who forms the
most stable government in the largest province of the country. I am grateful
to him for making the suggestion and I consider it a great privilege and
honour, indeed, to be a Member of this August Body even at this late stage.

The time-limit and the occasion do not permit me to say more. So I have the
honour to support the resolution placed by our Law Minister.

**Shri B.M. Gupte** (Bombay : General) : Mr. President, Sir, this Constitution, made up as it is of a series of compromise decisions, contains certain features of which we may well be proud and others also which many of us would have liked very much to avoid. Because of this attempt at unanimity, the Constitution has perhaps lost something in consistency and coherence, but it has gained in strength and stability. I am sure this Constitution would have been more progressive but the extraordinary times in which it was framed. The world is out of joint and India cannot escape sharing that fate. The unrest, the unsettlement, the turmoil around us, both in this country and abroad- have materially influenced the framing of the Constitution. Nevertheless, it is a fully democratic Constitution and establishes social equality.

Many critics basing their objection on the emergency provisions, have
denounced this Constitution as dictatorial and Fascist. But these detractors
forget that even under an emergency, the House of the People, elected on the
widest possible franchise, remains in control of the situation. I do not see
how this can be compatible with dictatorship or with Fascism. I know that
Provincial Assemblies can be suspended but the franchise of the Provincial
Assemblies is just the same as that of the House of the People, and therefore,
the Provincial Assemblies cannot claim a more representative character. Of
course, our Parliament is not as sovereign as the House of Commons in England.
It cannot be because in a Federal State it is the Constitution that is
Sovereign and not any one organ of the State.

The Fundamental Rights and the small field of provincial subjects impose
certain limitations on the sovereignty of the House of the People, but those
limitations are not of the dictatorial or Fascist character. Naturally,
therefore, the proposition that even in an emergency the Constitution remains
fully democratic is, I think, amply justified.

Then the social equality. No discrimination between man and man on any ground
is either permitted, or tolerated and untouchability is declared an offence.
It is a matter for great sorrow that the Father of the Nation is not alive to
witness the inauguration of the new Constitution, but it is some consolation
that he lived to see the triumphant constitutional fulfillment of a mission
that was dearest to his heart, namely, the removal of untouchability. Another
highlight of the Constitution is the abolition of communal representation, a
canker that was eating into the very vitals of our body politic.

We have taken nearly three years to complete our task. Some people wrongly
believe that this was an unduly long period. But I invite their attention to
this consideration that a hastily improvised Constitution in a rapidly
changing situation would have ultimately caused greater trouble and cost.
Suppose we had finished the work within one or two years: then communal
representation would have remained and at least the first elections would have
been held on that principle. I, therefore, think that the delay, if at all it
is a delay, is well justified because we have thereby avoided this undesirable
thing.

Then coming to the economic side, I must confess that it is not as progressive
as it is on the political or on the social side. The Constitution is certainly
not socialistic but there are unmistakable leanings towards socialism; and
what is more important there is no bar no impediment to the establishment of
socialism if the electorate really wants it.

Some of our critics have said that this Assembly is not representative,
because it is not directly elected on the adult franchise, and therefore, the
Constitution is not as socialist as it otherwise would have been. I contest
this proposition. Theoretically it may be correct but I am sure that if at the
time when this Assembly was constituted the elections were held on the adult
franchise, the Congress would have swept the polls and therefore, there would
have been hardly any difference in the character of this Assembly. I,
therefore, submit that this Assembly is adequately representative and this
Constitution substantially reflects the public opinion of the time when it was
framed.

Coming to certain defects--of course I can mention only certain defects--I can
point out that I do not like the provisions about relations between the Units
and the Centre. Speaking on an earlier occasion, I had described that our
State was not a Federal State but a decentralized Unitary State. Subsequent
provisions, namely article 365 and article 371 have vindicated any
description. As far as States in Part B, C and D are concerned, avowedly and
admittedly the powers of superintendence and control are vested in the Centre
and therefore to that extent the State becomes unitary. The only question of
doubt or dispute is with regard to States in Part A. At the time that I spoke
on this point, I mentioned a number of marks of subordination to the Centre. I
need not repeat them. The domination of the Centre is there. But my grievance
is that it is secured by indirect means. I would not have minded it if it was
done avowedly, openly and in a straightforward manner. The units are kept
completely dependent in financial matters on the good graces of the Centre and
it is this kind of semblance of independence with complete dependence upon the
Centre for finances that is in my opinion the most objectionable feature.

Then I had also voiced my grievance that the same 'State' was quite anomalous.
The inequality in the powers and functions of the units is one of the unique
features of this Constitution. This anomaly about the name is another such
feature. The first one was of course due to historical causes and we could not
have avoided it. The first one was of course due to historical causes and we
could not have avoided it; there were already different kinds of units like
Provinces, States, Chief Commissoners' provinces and so on. But this uniform
name of 'State' we could have avoided. As I had shown on that occasion it is
anomalous, because there is no residuary power in any of the units. The States
in Part B, C and D are definitely subordinate to the Centre and yet we have
given to all the units the glorified name of 'State'. This may result in
giving them a very inflated idea of their prestige. Because of this glorified
name, they may think they have some independence, but their hopes are bound to
be dashed to the ground. This name has laid us open to the charge that our
label is not according to the contents or that the contents are not according
to the label. In my opinion, this anomalous name should have been dropped.

This brings me to the defects of drafting. I certainly think that drafting
could have been improved, although as far as verbal improvements are concerned
I do not wish to blame the Drafting Committee. We were always running a race
against time, setting before us one deadline date after another. The hustled
Drafting Committee had no item to look to this aspect. I also do not share the
opinion expressed on so many occasions by so many critics that this
Constitution is a paradise for lawyers. This is not a novel feature of our
Constitution. It is a feature of all modern Constitution and for that matter
of every piece of legislation. The world has become so complex that a perfect
draft is impossible, and the ingenuity of the lawyer will always outpace the
assiduity of the draftsman. Moreover in this Constitution owing to detailed
provisions comparatively much less is left for interpretation or convention
and nobody can therefore say that the lawyer members of the Drafting
Committee, because of partiality to their profession, had created paradise for
lawyers in this Constitution.

My objection to the drafting is, however, more fundamental. In my opinion
there is a very important defect about the convention of responsible
government. We have in this matter copied the Irish Constitution though
similar provision is not found in the Canadian or Australian Constitutions. In
the Constitution of Ireland there is provision that the Ministry shall be
responsible to the legislature; we have taken this but at the same time, we
have not copied what is provided in it, namely, that the President is bound to
accept the advice of the Ministry. We have left that out. I really do not know
why. It has given rise to great misunderstanding and many people think that
the President is likely to be a dictator. According to convention, he would
certainly be a Constitutional head only. This was provided for in the
Instrument of Instructions. But later on we dropped that instrument also and
it has clouded the position in respect to this matter.

Then again, with regard to the President we do not mention any discretionary
powers, but with regard to the Governor the discretionary power is mentioned.
I do not see why there should be this difference. Of course, there are
conventions and the strength of democracy lies in the character of the people
and their representatives. If our representatives are strong enough, they will
see to it that inspite of the doubtful nature of the provision, the convention
shall be observed. But what I say is that I do not like that this important
matter should have been lacking in clarity.

After all, a Constitution cannot be judged merely from its text or on paper.
The Canadian and Australian Constitutions contain a number of provisions
giving powers to the Governor- General, but in practice those powers have
never been exercised. The Weimar Constitution was said to be a model
democratic Constitution, of the time but it was soon wrecked by Hitler and out
of its ashes arose a terrible dictatorship which plunged the world into a
devastating war. So it is not the Constitution that matters nor the people who
make it, but it is the men who work the Constitution and the spirit in which
they work it. Any Constitution may be good on paper, but its success depends
upon the manner in which it is worked.

In this connection many people have apprehensions about the adult franchise.
Their apprehensions are partly justified, but we must have faith in our
principles and faith in the common man. Like other infants, our infant
democracy will of course have teething troubles and its adolescence may be
marked by mischievous pranks; but in spite of the initial trouble and
occasional lapses, I hope generally and ultimately the commonsense of the
common man will triumph. It was for us only to fashion the instrument. It is
for others to work it. As far as I can see, we can certainly make the claim
that we have fashioned it to the best of our abilities and according to the
best of our lights. It is an instrument fairly workable and fairly flexible.
It ensures security and stability. If we study the provisions of this
Constitution, we find that the one dominating concern of the Drafting
Committee was the security of the new State. Therefore, this Constitution
ensures security and stability without impeding progress. It promotes
collective good without stifling the development of individual personality.
But in my opinion, the real test of the Constitution would be whether it is
able to bring about any speedy improvement in the miserable lot under which
the common man has been suffering for generations past. If this Constitution
brings him some solace I shall certainly feel very proud of my association in
the framing of it.

**Shri Balwant Sinha Mehta** (United State of Rajasthan) : *[Mr. President, I consider it a great privilege that I have got this opportunity to speak in this Assembly. It is the first time I am going to speak here but it is at a time when the free Constitution of free India is going to have an existence of its own after having been adopted by this assembly. It is a matter of great pleasure for me to be able to stay a few words of my own at such an suspicious moments as the present one.

Several friends have already given us their analysis of this Constitution.
While some have praised it others have adversely criticised it. But so far as
I understand it appears to me that their sense of modesty has made the critics
adopt this course. Our people are modest by nature. Besides it has been almost
a bit with us that we usually underrate ourselves while foreigners by praising
us enable us to realise our achievements at their proper worth. I could give
several instances to prove my point but I do not think it is really necessary
to do so.

The fact is that the Constitution drawn up by us is not only quite detailed
but also quite good. I am quite sure that the foreigners would be
wornderstruck when they would see how good a Constitution we have been able to
give to ourselves. All the Members of this august Body and the members of the
Drafting Committee and more particularly Dr. Ambedkar, T.T. Krishnamachari,
Shri Alladi Krishnaswami and others have laboured hard for giving a proper
shape to this Constitution. I believe these gentlemen deserve all the praise
we can bestow upon them. We must also offer our homage to Pandit Jawaharlal
Nehru, Sardar Patel and the other Congress Leaders and martyrs. It is due to
them that we are today in a position to frame a Constitution for free India.
They have also guided us directly or indirectly in framing our Constitution.
We owe deep gratitude to you, Sir, for having guided the proceedings of the
House with great impartiality and having enabled all shades of opinion to find
full expression in this House. The representatives of the nation in this
august Body who have devoted their energy and time for giving the fullest
consideration, to the Draft Constitution. Those who have criticised this
Constitution have used rather hard and bitter words. It is the opinion of some
of them that while too many powers have been vested in the President and the
Centre, quite a good number of limitations have imposed on the freedom and
fundamental rights of the citizens. That is no doubt true and I do not think
anyone can deny the truth contained in that statement. But, it is my
submission that we were obliged to do so by the existing circumstances, by the
conditions prevailing in the country today. Besides it appears to me that in
view of the circumstances in which we drafted this Constitution it was but
proper that such restrictions should have been imposed. As a free people we
are still in an infancy. The national sentiment was also not taken as yet in
this country. Both these considerations compel us to accept these restrictions
and limitations. You are well aware, Sir, that only some time back there
existed too many petty states, too many Rajas and Maharajas and many a
regional loyalties in our country. All these events had made their abode in
our country and it was necessary to strengthen the Central Government in order
to eradicate them. it is my firm opinion. Sir, that this Constitution is fully
democratic in character. It provides for liberty and at the same time it
secures equality as well.

Moreover, Sir, the provision for adult franchise which we have included in
this Constitution is so important and significant that even if there had not
been any other provision in it, it would have yet retained fully a democratic
character. That fact is, Sir, that even at considerable risk to ourselves we
have included this provision for adult suffrage, and thereby maintained the
democratic character of our State.

There are some others who allege that we have not maintained any link with our
ancient and historic institutions. But I would urge such critics to remember
that today we have only a very dim and incomplete picture of our ancient
polity That fact is that we cannot discern it even in its outlines. But even
then we have included quite a number of the element of our historic
institutions whereby our culture would be adequately protected.

But I concede that there is one thingwhich appears to be a serious defect in
it. If this Constitution had embodied the ideal of Gandhiji in this respect as
well, if it had embodied Gandhism, in the full sense of the term, it would
have been an ideal one-one which would have been an example and a message to
the peoples and nations of the world. The world today, Sir, is in a state of
turmoil and discord. It is to our Bharat that the nations of the world are
looking for securing salvation from this sad state. I, therefore, submit, Sir,
that it would have been far better for all concerned if our Constitution had
emboided Gandhism and more particularly his economic plan and social ideals.
But while I regret this omission I realise that a Constitution also changes as
the nation goes on marching forward. We can today feel a legitimate pride in
three features of this Constitution, that is to say the guarantee it gives of
Fundamental Rights the provision for Adult Suffrage and the elimination of
communalism and sectionalism. We can raise our head high for the ideals of
which this Constitution is a concrete manifestation. The Constitution of a
country is never static and it shall always be open to amendments. The Father
of our Nation had secured for us our political independence and I think that
that also he did in a unique way. Yet despite the attainment of political
indepedence we have yet to attain economic democracy. Whenever the
representatives of the nation feel the necessity of the same. But as it is an
instrument which we can use effectively for ensuring the continued progress of
our country.

This Constitution, above, all, has come as a message of joy and cheer to the
people of the Indian states. The great change that has come over the face of
the country today is the total disappearance of the 562 petty states and
feudal estates which had been so far tyranising other large tracts of our
country. These have now yielded place toadministrations which would have the
same political pattern as our Provinces have. It is our achievement which even
the greatest constitutional experts cannot but praise. You are obliged for all
this to Sardar Patel. In this connection I would draw attention to the fact
that we have yet the system of Jagirdari. This system is responsible for the
many calamities, pillage and murders which are causing considerable anxiety
and terror to the people. I hope, however, that by the time this Constitution
comes into force these disorders would have been not only brought under
control but also completely eliminated.

Another great achievement in my opinion has been, Sir, our decision with
regard to our State Language. This is the only thing that can and will keep
our country united. It is a very great achievement, but we have now to convert
our official language into our national language. The responsibility for this
falls specially on the shoulders of those people whose language is Hindi and
the other people can co-operate to make this language so simple and easy that
it may become prevalent in the whole of the country as a national language.

It is a matter of regret that our language, Rajasthani has not found a place
in the schedule of regional languages. This is a language spoken by 15 million
of people and possesses a rich literature and finds a very high place in the
ancient and chivalrous literature of Hidni. It is a matter of great regret
that such a language has not been included in that Schedule. I think our
leaders would be able to secure a place for it in the schedule of regional
languages through the Parliament at some future date.

One thing that has pained and offended our people in the States and
particularly the Rajasthanis is the division of Sirohi by our States Ministry.
Sirohi has an important place in Rajasthan. In rajasthani language the word
'Sirohi means a sword and it is Rajasthan's sword indeed. Our respected leader
Sardar Patel has realised Maharana Pratap's dream of United Rajasthan, but if
that sword is broken, I think every Rajasthan would be pained. Sirohi has ll
along been connected with Rajasthan. It is connected with Rajasthan
linguistically, geographically, as well as historically. At least a thousand
years history would testify to the fact that Sirohi is an integral part of
Rajasthan. Maharana Kumbha of Abu had constructed the fort of Achalgarh to
defend Rajasthan from attacks of Gujarat, and the remains of that fort are
still there. Even today the rich capitalists of Rajasthan have made
investments running into hundreds of thousands in that state which is our part
and parcel historically, traditionally, geographically and in every way. Its
division is very painful for the people in Rajasthan. I think all the people
of our Indian States would be pained at this. This is a division which was
neither demanded by the people nor the Raja of that State. Neither the local
Congress Committee had made a demand for it, nor the public there had made any
such demand. Ever since its incorporation in Bombay, the residents there have
been demanding its merger with Rajasthan and identifying themselves with the
people of Rajasthan. But the sudden and secret way in which this division has
been effected has surprised everybody. When the announcement was made here in
the Assembly, I learn, Pandit Nehru our leader was fortunately present here
and he as also other members were listening with surprise to that statement
about the decision to divide Sirohi from immediate effect. We do not know why
the partition has been effected, but so far as we can guess, it has been made
in view the tower of Abu. Abu has been an important part of Sirohi as well as
Rajasthan. It has always been a part of Rajasthan and was like a capital under
British rule. Its connection with Rajasthan dates back to thousand years. The
people there speak Hindiand Rajasthani. there are only a few people speaking
Gujarati. They are hardly 3 or 4 per cent. There was no demand for partition
from the public nor had the Raja expressed the lease desire for it. So many
convenants have been entered into so far, but is the first case of
partitioning a region without consulting either the Raja or the people. So I
think this is a thing which would cause a deeppain to the people of Rajasthan.
I hope this error would soon be rectified.

Another great achievement of our Constitution is that the great blot of
untouchability has been removed for good in our Constitution. This is
specially a matter of great pride and pleasure. The credit for this goes to
our leaders particularly Thakar Bapa. The whole of his life has been dedicated
to the service of aboriginals and Harijans. We have been able to remove this
blot as a result of Thakar Bapa's service and Mahatma Gandhi's efforts and
renunciation. You must be aware that there are crores of aboriginals in India
who live in wild forests. It is our respected Thakar Bapa who has made them
politically conscious. He goes to them and inspires them even at this age. I
pay my homage to him on this occasion for causing this national awakening.
There are aboriginals and Harijans in Rajasthan in great number, and I request
that we should have a minister for the welfare in Rajasthan just as Madhya
Bharat has a minister for them. Our Premier of Rajasthan is present here, and
I appeal to him to make such a provision. These people number 30 lakhs and
their condition is very pitiable and nothin ghas been done for them so far. If
these people have to be elevated to our level, we and all of you should fully
co-operate in the matter.

We have made this Constitution as good as we could. It is now our duty to go
to our constituencies and explain this Constitution to the people of our
countryside, which is our real sphere of work. Sometimes misgivings get
currency in the masses due to lack of education and propaganda. For the
general masses, independence and Constitution can have the least significance
only if they can provide him with food, reiment, shelter and education. But
though there is nothing like this clearly embodied in the Constitution, yet we
can by our action work the Constitution in such a way as to provide these
things for them, and all their difficulties be soon removed. But this will
happen, only when we fellow the ideals of Mahatma Gandhi which have been
embodied in this. For this we will have to reduce our expenditure too. We will
have to level down the standard of living of the people at the top and to
raise that of the people at the bottom. Our administration is becoming more
and more costly. I think it is the effect of the British rule. Our
constitutional machinery would also be quite expensive jsut because the
present set up is so costly. If any attention had been paid to this reform, it
would have been better. Now too this is for the administration to give it such
a shape as to benefit the poor most.

With these words, I support Dr. Ambedkar's motion to pass this Constitution,
and pay my homage to Mahatma Gandhi, owing to whose sacrifice and efforts we
have seen this day, when we have completed our Constituion after attaining our
independence.

The Assembly then adjourned for Lunch till Three of the Clock.

\-----------------

The Assembly re-assembled after Lunch at Three of the Clock, Mr. President
(The Honourable Dr. Rajendra Prasad) in the Chair.

\-----------------

**Shri Nandkishore Das** (Orissa: General): Mr. President, Sir, having had absolutely no opportunity of participating in the discussion of this Constitution in its clause to clause consideration stage, I avail myself of this last opportunity to make a few general observations on the Constitution as it has emerged in final shape out of our deliberations over the last nearly three years.

I recall to my mind the state of things that prevailed in the country in
December 1946 when we met for the first time in the Constituent Assembly. The
political firmament in India was at that time full of dark clouds and ominous
forebodings and there was considerable doubt and anxiety in our minds as to
whether the heterogenous elements and divergent groups that constituted the
then Constituent Assembly would be able to evoelve an agreed and satisfactory
Constitution acceptable to the country as a whole.

The events that followed in quick succession the initial stages of the
Constituent Assembly sittings culminating in the transfer of power and the
partition of the country removed the uncertainties to a great extent. The
disappearance of the recalcitrant elements from the House paved the way for
the Constituent Assembly to set about its business under happier auspices and
in a a more congenial atmosphere. But even then the framing of a Constitution
for a country having so many diverse elements and a multiplicity of interests
was a task of such stupendous magnitude that there was doubts naturally felt
by even the most optimistically minded among us as to the ultimate success of
our endeavours.

It is therefore a matter of supreme satisfaction that thanks to the
accommodating spirit displayed by our leaders and constitution-makers, the
labours of this Constituent Assembly have at last been crowned with success
and we have now before us a Constitution which can rank as one among the best
Constitutions of the world both in respect of its size and the inherent worth
of its contents. While presenting the Draft Constitution to the House more
than a year ago, Dr. Ambedkar had stated that this Constitution with 313
articles was the bulkiest constitution in the world and with the number of
articles now increased to 395 the Constitution has become bulkier still. Our
hearty congratulations go to our leaders and constitution-makers who in the
midst of their other preoccupations have collaborated in this obviously up-
hill task. What can be said as the flesh and blood of this constitutional
organism has of course been contributed by our present day leaders and by a
long line of distinguished revolutionaries that preceded them but its bones
and muscles in other words the actual framework of the Constitution is the
fruit of the labours of the Drafting Committee headed by Dr. Ambedkar, who
alone of all persons has carried on his shoulders this tremendous burden with
conspicuous ability.

There are good many admirable features of thisConstitution to which attention
has already been drawn by so many honourable Members and I do not think it
necessary to refer to all of them. The enfranchisement of the entire adult
population of the country is the biggest democratic step adopted int he
Constitution. It may interest honourable Members of the House to be told that
the number of people which this Constitution has enfranchised is almost equal
to, if not more than, the entire population of Soviet Russia. This adul-
franchise undoubtedly represents the fulfilment of our long cherished and
often declared intentions but its success in the context of present day
unsettled state of things in the countryside is a matter which causes some
doubt and anxiety. Fundamental rights constitute another glorious chapter in
the Constitution. That these rights have been hedged in by many healthy
restrictions does not at all undermine their efficacy; on the other hand they
make the rights all the more precious. Care has been taken to see that the
rights guaranteed to the citizens do not degenerate into license to do
anything one likes in the name of liberty of action miscalled 'civil liberty'.
Some friends have complained of the inadequacy of our fundamental rights. My
honourable Friend Shri Lakshminarayan Sahu has even gone to the length of
saying that civil rights enjoyed by people in the British regime have been
curtailed by the present Constitution. I present to my friend Shri Sahuji and
to others of his way of thinking a P.T.I. news item published in today's
Hindustan Times under the caption "Students belaboured Railway official."

"Armed with daggers, iron rods and hockey stiks. 40 students of a local
English High School dragged out a travelling ticket examiner from aguard van
at Ghusia Kalau railway station near here and belaboured him. The ticket
examiner had charged some students for travelling without tickets in class I.

He was admitted to the Sada hospital to be treated for his serious injuries."

If the conception of civil liberty of my honourable Friend Mr. Sahu included
unsocial and anti-national activities like these, I am really sorry for it.

Rights must be co-related to some duties. It would have been better if along
with enumeration of fundamental rights. The Cosntitution had contained
specific references to duties to be performed by the citizens in order to be
eligible for their rights.

The abolition of untouchability, enforcement of disability in any shape or
form arising out of untouchability to be treated as a punishable offence in
law, the substitution of joint electorate in place of communal electorate are
among the other happy features of the Constitution. Articles 36 to 51,
contained in part IV of the Constitution, otherwise known as Directive
Principles of State Policy represent the quintessence of all that is the best
and the noblest in any code of social, political, cultural or economic ethics
that prevail in any part of the world. I wonder how in the face of all these
distinctive provisions, the Constitution has been cried down in certain
quarters as reactionary and retrograde. May I humbly ask these unkind and
ungenerous critics to put their heads together and produce an alternative
Constitution which must be a workable Constitution suited to the requirements
of the country and not one meant for an Utopian society?

It has got to be admitted however that the Constitution in spite of being one
of the best paper Constitutions in the world has failed to evoke sufficient
enthusiasm in that country and a suspicion lurks in the minds of even the most
ardent admirers of the Constitution that something is wrong somewhere and
things are not proceedings in the way they should. Some friends have
complained that the Constituion is not Gandhian in conception and they have
felt bitterly disappointed onthat score. d Speaking about myself personally, I
do not at all feel disappointed that this Constitution is not moulded odn
Gandhian ideal, inasmuch as I least expected a Gandhian Constitution from our
constitution-makers. We all swear by the the Father of the Nation, but how
many of us have been able to assimilate his teachings in our personal
activities of the day to day life? How many of us have that undying faith in
the refashioning of our society on the old village self-sufficiency model? A
Gandhian Constitution is not to be produced by a mere mechanical process but
must grow out of deepest convictions and a determination to shape our society
strictly and meticulously in conformity with his ideals. This determination is
to be found almost nowhere in the country. Hence evolving of a Gandhian
Constitution out of non-Gandhian brains and minds is quite out of the
question. Gandhiji throughout his life laid repeated emphasis on
decentralisation of powers but our Constitution has proceeded on the reverse
line, namely, over-centralisation. Our leaders think and think rightly that
without a strong Centre this infant democracy would be in danger of being
destroyed by disintegrating forces from all sides. The events happening in the
country ever since the coming of independence provide sufficient justification
for the type of Constitution that we now have. Therefore, lack of enthusiasm
for the Constitution if properly diagnosed will have found to be due not to
any inherent defect of the Constituion but rather to the deplorable and
gradually drifting situation which has overtaken this unhappy land during the
two and odd years of post-Independence period. Under the circumstances no
useful purpose will be served by decrying the Constitution for this or that
real or fancied defect and the best and the most patriotic course for all
sections of people is to unite in order to give the new republican
Constitution a fair trial and thereby paying undivided allegiance to the
leaders of the nation in their efforts to consolidate the newly earned
freedom.

Sir, before I conclude, I think it my duty to give you my humble tribute of
respect and admiration for the fair and impartial manner in which you have
conducted the proceedings of this House and thereby contributing in no small
measure to the succcess of this undertaking.

**Sardar Sochet Singh** (Patiala &amp; Punjab States Union): Mr. President, Sir, I rise to complement this House on the fruition of its three years' labour and the emergence of the country's constitution in its present final shape. The country should be rightly grateful to its great leaders, eminent jurists, legal luminaries, linguists, grammarians, and men of letters who have all toiled incessantly and worked vigilantly in presenting to their mother land what they in their wisdom and honesty have thought and felt to be gest in the interests of the millions of men, women and children who inhabit this great sub-continent and in whom sovereignty and ultimate mastery over the affairs of the country henceforward vests.

Sir, much has been said about the pattern to which the constitutional
structure should conform and the direction to which it leans or does not lean.
We did not start with any prejudice in favour of or against any particular
pattern. We were ndot wedded to a federal, unitary or any other type of
structure. We had the advantage of having the text and experience of so many
constitutions of other advanced countries before us. We have tried to pick and
choose the best that was more suited to our own conditions and special
requirements, our traditions and experience of governmental institutions
during the last half a entury. Coupled with the historical generalities of the
situation we have had the additidonal benefit of practical experience of the
governance of the country during the past twenty-seven months and the due and
realistic appraisal of our domestic problems and social trneds in the context
of international and world problems and trends, and it is in this setting and
background that the merits of our Constitution should be judge and
appreciated.

Sir, I am one of those who feel and believe that the interests, consolidation
and permanence of our newly won freedom demand a strong Centre consistent with
due and free functioning of provincial and local autonomy. We cannot afford
the luxury of over-decentralisation simply in order to satisfy mere slogans
and catchwords. While a unitary form of Government is unsuitable and
impracticable in a vast country with 340 millions of people, having varied
local and regional needs and problems a completely decentalised scheme of
Government jis sure to let loose fissiparous tendencies resulting in the
ultimate disruption of the country, particularly in view of the regrettable
existence in our midst of the hydra-headed monster of provincialism,
communalism, lingualism and social and economic imbalance.

Some friends have tried to make a fetish of civil liberty which they say
should end only when civil authority comes to an end. Such an assertion is
simply amusing, if not ridiculous. It is as if one should consent to the
destruction of a deity, but object to the obstruction in prayers to the same
deity. Healthy restraints and restrictions against abuse of liberty must be
provided for if we have to prevent the break-up of odur country and the break-
down of its Governmental machinery.

Some friends have wailed that the right to work has not been provided for in
our Constitution. Article 19 clause (g) reads as follows: "All citizens shall
have the right to practise any profession or to carry on occupation, trade or
business."

If it is not the right to work, I wonder what other language could convey the
conept of work more appropriately or unambiguously.

My two Sikh friends from the East Punjab have had occasion to say so much with
regard to their reactions to teh provisions concerned with minorities. I may
point out that the word 'minority' whether religious or racial does not figure
anywhere in our Constitution. But the word 'community' which is the root of
the ugly outlook called communalism has been allowed to be incorporated in
relation to teh Anglo-Indians. I admit that the Anglo-Indians are not a
religious group, but they are a racial community so much advanced socially,
educationally and economically that there is no justification for according
them any special or preferential treatment. Surely, there must be something
other than their backwardness which has entitled them to disfigure our
Constitution by the provision of unmerited and unwaranted favouritism. The
safeguards provided for the existing services could have been deemed ample to
protect their interests; but any discrimination in their favour for future
recruitment can be rightly resented and objected to by other communities.
Beyond opposing the concession bestoweed upon the Anglo-Indian community, the
Sikhs are not justified in demanding any undue discrimination in their own
favour. The question of Sikhs is not of sentiment, but of substance. The
fundamental question is whether the Sikhs are a backward community either
socially, educationally or economically or even in any other sphere. I
maintain they are not. Socially, they are respected and economically they are
prosperous because they are enterprising and hard-working. It was revealed at
the Sikh Education Conference at patiala last month that according to the last
Census, the standard of literacy among Muslims of the Punjab was 9 per cent.
Hindus 16 per cent and Sikhs 17 &amp;frac12; per cent.

During the current eyar the East Punjab Public Service Commission compiled a
list of successful candidates for Provincial services according to a
tentatively agreed ration of 40 per cent for Sikhs and 60 per cent for others.
The Premier of East Punjab, Shri Bhim Sen Sachar, referred the list back to
the Public Service Commission witht eh recommandation that the list should be
drawn up strictly on the basis of merit and it resulted in the selection of
Sikh candidates in excess of 40 per cent. May I enquire from Sardar Hukam
Singh and Sardar Bhopinder Singh Man and otehrs of their way of thinking and
feling whetehr our backwarness and necessity for safeguards lie in our higher
literac y and greater efficiencyd? Besides, the success of Sikh candidates at
the two competitive examinations for the I.A.S. during the past two years has
not fallen below our proportion in the population of the country. It is to be
remembered that both these competitive examinatisons were held at a difficult
time when a large and opulent part of the silk sommunity was suffering from
the hardships and rigour of partition and its aftermath and necessary
conditions and atmosphere for a first class preparation for higher
examinations were not available to displaced candidates. I have every hope and
confidence that after the resettlement of displaced persons, our young men
would show and achieve much better results in getting opportunities for the
service of the country.

Sardar hukam Singh has stated an economic truth in saying that the two main
avocations of Sikhs are agriculture and army. He has nothing to c omplain
about any discrimination as far as agriculture jis concerned which absorbs 85
per cent of our population. The special position inthe Army is sure to subsist
as far as our moral and physicalqualities and geographical situation continue
as they are. No country can afford to keep bravery and stamina out of its army
and the position of East Punjab as a border province is sure to oblige the
Government of the country to take steps and measures to impart military
training to the populace and equip them fully to meet the menace from the
other side and provide a permanent reserve from which the regular army would
have to draw its requirements from time to time. I think it is time we stop
harping on our inferior position ad nauseum and insult the intelligence and
fitness of our new entrants to Government services and the efficiency of those
who are already in. An over-emphasis on inferiority and helplessness, when
they are not there, will impair the self-respect and dignity of our able
officers if not their mateiral prospects. As regards services, our case is not
on all fours swith that of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and it is
no use our creating artificial smokescreens to hide or distort truth.

Another attempt is made to manufacture an artificial grievance when it is
alleged that the decision of the Minorities Advisory Committee to bring the
backward classes among the Sikhs into the category of Scheduled classes has
been lightly change to exclude PEPSU from the opration of this decision. I
declare that nothing is farther from the truth. As far as any one can see the
position has been considerably improved in the direction contrary to what has
been attempted to be made out by Sardar Bhopinder Singh Man. The relevant
portion in the report of the Honourable Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. Chairman of
the Advisory Committee on Minorities and Fundamental Rights dated 11thd May
1949 reads as follows:

"The Committee also accepted the unanimous proposal made by the Sikh
representatives that the following classes in East Punjab, namely, Mazhabis,
Ramdasis, Kabirpanthis and Sikligars, who suffer the same disabilities as
other members of the Scheduled Castes should be included in the list of
Scheduled Castes so that they would get the benefit of representation given to
the Scheduled Castes.

At that time, thestatus of Indian States was intended to be kept different
from that of the Provinces. But, subsequently, the decision to bring both to
the same level and status has culminated in the form which article 341 has now
taken Article 341 reads-

"The President may, after consultation with the Governor or Rajpramukh of a
State, by public notification, specify the castes, races or tribes or parts of
groups within castes, races or triges, which shall, for the purpose of this
Constitution be deemed to be Scheduled Castes in relation to that State."

It appears from this that there is no distinction as between East Punjab and
the PEPSU. Article 15 clause (1) provides-

"The State shall not discridminate against any citizen on grounds only of
religion, race place of birth or any of them."

In the face of this how can our Constituion or the Government of the country
or any State in the country based on this Constitution afford to make
discrimination as between East Punjab and PEPSU? I am afraid the fears
expressed by my co-religionists are extra-logical and without rfrence to the
appropriate provisions of the Constitution.

The objection with regard to the jurisdiction and function of the Backward
Classes Commission is equally groundless. The Commission to be appointed under
article 340 shall investigate th conditions of socially and educationally
backwrd classes within the territory of India and the difficulties under which
they labour and make recommendations to remove such difficulties etc. etc. The
backward classes among Sikhs are ndot excluded from the purview of the
Commission. The Sikh Community on the whole is not at all a backward community
and its spokesmen in the House have no business ro justification to insist on
its being classed as a backward section of the population. The is neither a
fact nor is it believed by the majority of Sikhs or their minent leaders. The
Maharaja of Patiala, the Rajpramukh of PEPSU, Sardar Baldev Singh, the Defence
Minister of India, Jathedar Udham Singh Nagoke, the President of the highest
religious institution, the Shiromani Gurdwara Prabhandhak Committee, Sardar
Partap Singh Kairon, Member of the Congress Working Committee, Giani Gurmukh
Singh Musafir, President of the E.P.P.C.C. all the past and present Sikh
Ministers of East Punjab and all Legisltors of the East Punjab do not share
the views and sentiments of Sardar Hukam Singh and Sardar Bhopinder Singh Man
that the entire Sikh community deserves to be included among and accorded the
teatment of backward classes. For myself, I belong to a majority of India-a
majority of kisans who make up 85 per cent of its population.

Unfortunately the trouble with some of our leaders is that they have never
throughout their public career had experience of working in any secular
institution and they have always built their leadership and power on slogans
of 'religion or community in danger' and they find it difficult to give up old
habits and propaganda or to strike upon new outlook or programme. I can hjope
that had Master Tara Singh ever worked as a Municipal Commissioner in Amritsar
and seen in actual practice that Hindu and Sikh Commissioners were equally
anxious and keen for sanitation and the health of all citizens living in the
municipal town, he could have overcome much of the idmaginary fears and
suspicions against the majority that are haunting him today. In one breath he
declares that Hindus and Sikhs are comrades in life as welld as death and in
the next that they cannot live under one another's domination. This is strange
logic but our friends in the House have to echo whatever views or sentiments
their leader expresses outside.

I appeal to my co-religionists to cry halt to this campaign of mutual distrust
and hostility. Love begets love and hatred breeds hatred. If we sow trust we
reap confidence. Having allowed ourselves to indulge in militant communal
ideas and slogans we cannot, in fairness, grumble about the aggressive
communalism fo the majority community in the East Punjab which is now
suppressing even the Punjabi language. What we need is a change of atmosphere
where justice, liberty, equality and fraternity prevail to the good of all and
the glory of the country. Our Constitution may be blamed for not showing undue
favouritism to any section excepting one, but it does not lie in any one's
mouth to say that any discrimination against any section or interest is
intended or provided for.

Our Constitution carries in it the impress of the high-souled nobility of the
president-Dr. Rajendra Prasad, the universal vision of Pandit Jawaharlal
Nehru, the unfailing judgment and strength the Sardar Vallabhbhai patel the
scintillating and penetrating intellectuality of Dr. Pattabhi Sitaramayya, the
erudition and labours of Dr. Ambedkar and above all the patriarchal blessings
and divine inspiration of the Father of the Nation-our revered Mahatma Gandhi.
It is my hope and prayer that such a monumental Charter of Freedom of millions
of my countrymen will not fail to bring about peace, prosperity and happiness
not only for this country, but for the whole world.(Cheers.)

**Mr. T.J.M. Wilson** (** **(Madras:General): Mr. President, Sir, I also join in thanking you, the Rashtrapathi and the Chairman and members of the Drafting Committee for this Constitution. The Constitution is criticised by many on the ground that it has borrowed from foreign Constitutions and from foreign ideas. It arises otu of a misconception that our country is entirely independent of and different from other countries and therefore our nation had nothing to do with the ideas and achievements of other nations. But the truth is that the whole humanity is marching forward as a single whole-of course with different progress for different countries of the world on account of the different material conditions, but all the same is marching towards the same goal and in the same direction and the heritage that manking has so far won, either of the fundamental principles of equality, and liberty, and fraternity or of the Constitution tiself, is the common heritage and common property of all the nations and each nation would draw upon and ought to draw upon that common heritage and march forward further addingto that heritage by its own experiences and by its own struggles. If to-day each nation talks of equality, it has come to us long long ago-when Christianity had offered this conception of equality to humanity at the time of the greatest crisis for human society-on the fall of the Greek City States, when the conception of equality was absolutely foreign and unknown to those Greek City States and when the society had no foundation-no basis to rest upon; and if to-day everybody talks of liberty, this liberty has been won for us by centuries of struggles and revolutions and experience, and therefore the criticism that we have borrowed from foreign Constitutions or from foreign nations, is absolutely wrong.

But how far has humanity progressed till to-day and how far does our
Constitution reflect this progress of humanity? Whatever the difference in
approach or of method the whole human thought at present whether it is
literature or science or art or philosophy-is centred upon one fundamental
factor and that is the common man and his amelioration. His position is so
much established that even his enemies swear by him. Therefore it is to-day
that everybody talks of democracy though this unfortunate word has had to pass
through so much strain and stress. But what is this democracy? The most
elementary requisite of democracy is the right of every citizen to vote and we
have provided for it in our Constitution. But even this was questioned by some
of our friends on the ground that they are not sufficiently educated to carry
on the Government of the country. Their contention is that only intellect is
necessary for the Government of the country. But the conditions and also the
philosophy have changed. Government also has changed-the Government is not
something meta-physical or something mytic. Government has to deal to-day with
the actual conditions of people and the needs of people, whether they are of
food and cloth or of health and education and how can anybody else claim to
know these needs of people better than the people themselves? Thought is, of
course necessary and intellect is really essential; but unless it is united
with action, unless it is based upon the experience of the people, it will not
achieve much. Therefore, the purpose of adult suffrage, the right of every
person to vote is to bridge this gulf between action and thought. But is this
right to vote once in five years enough? The essence of democracy is not so
much the existence of what are called political parties, etc., but the essence
of democracy is the effetive participation of the individual in the actual
government of the country. The greater and more effective the participation of
the individual in the government, the greater is the democracy, because
democracy is still only an ideal which has yet to be reached by humanity.
Decentralisation would have done something in that direction, if we had
provided for it in our Constitution. But even the federal character of the
Constitution has been extremely narrowed down, and even that feeble and narrow
federalism disappears some times and converts itself into the unitary system.
Rfrence is made by some to the Village Panchayats, those ancient self-
sufficient Indian communities where agriculture and handweaving industry were
combined and which have survived centuries of inasion and conquent, and which
were uprooted and destroyed by British imperialism of whose glorious
achievement the Governor-General in 1834 reported "The bones of hand-weavers
are bleaching the plains of India". I am not one of those who look upon these
Panchayats as perfect or eternal. But what I say is that this Assembly should
have taken the one from that inherent, native aspect of the Indian society and
should have provided for some such machinery, which would have neabled the
individual to participate effectively in the government of the country and the
authority to flow not from top but from bottom to top. I plead for this
participation of the individual, not only because it is essential in the
interest of democracy, but also because it alone makes for the strength and
efficiency of the Centre, though many people mistakenly think that strength
lies in centralisation and a strong Centre. d I repeat that democracy of
conscious effective citizens is much stronger and more efficient, fromd any
point of view than any other form of government, and the usual talk of
weakness of democracy is absolute nonsense.

There has been provision made in the Constitution for the freedom of several
languages and cultures, providing at the same time, for a national language.
That should have logically resulted in more autonomy and more freedom of the
States, making for one powerful nation. The several languages and cultures
would have been guaranteed and made more effective if it had been buttressed
by a provision for such independent states and their distribution on a
cultural and lingustic basis. I am, however, grateful that Andhra province has
been conceded and will be provided for in the Constitution. The greatest
achievement, however, of our Constitution is its secular character, and the
secular State that emerges therefrom. We have achieved this secular character
of the State and we have provided for it in the Constitution. But the clouds
are gathering and are threatening to darken the secular character of the State
and obliterate it. I only pray and trust that the progressive forces of this
country, under the guidance and leadership of our great and beloved Prime
Minister will clear away those clouds and shall not allowe our country to pass
once again through that destruction and misery which most of the nations of
Europe and Asia had to pass before they could accomplish this great
achievement of a secular State.

I may mention also one thing which may not have been realised by many Members
of my own community. By giving up the reservations, whatever we might have
lost we have gained tremendously, because that has mainly contributed to the
estalishment of and the making it a fact, the secular character of the State
on which depends our very existence as a minority or community. I may here
raise my voice for an unfortunate section of my community-the Harijan
Christians. They are untouchables. Sir, and they are treated so, not only by
the caste-Hidnus with whom they have to deal every minute of their lives, but
I am ashamed to confess it, they are trated so even by their Christian
brethren, and the parents of these children come to us with tears in their
eyes to tell us that their children have been driven out of the schools and
deprived of their education because scholarships had been stopped for them,
while the children of their brothers and sisters who are non-converts are
continuing their studies. I do not need to plead the fundamental right that no
discrimination should be made against them on the basis of religion, but I
only beg of the Drafting Committee and the Government to take pity on them and
not on remove that taste of education from their mouths.

I now come to the criticism that is levelled against the constitution that it
has not provided for or conferred anything on the common man, that it has not
provided for social and economic justice. That, I submit, Sir, is an erroneous
contention, because it is based on an erroneous conception of the scope of the
Constitution. A Constitution has a limited scope. Its main function is to
provide for a machinery of Governmetn, and this Constitution has provided for
a machinery of the government, whatever its character. And whatever the
privileges or rights put in certain chapters are only those rights that are
achieved. That is the basic conception which I want to emphasise, because
otherwise, if we had embodied certain rights int he Constitution which we have
not achieved so far, that would have given a distorted, dishonest and
hypocritical picture of the country as a whole, and what is more, the
Constitution would have been simply unworkable. Therefore, the Constitution
has a limited purpose, and in spite of certain ugly features of the
Constitution, for example the provision for the protection of property as a
fundamental right, it would not and shall not prevent the country, as Mr.
Santhanam has pointed out, from achieveing socialism.

Much has been said of liberty and freedom. Let us strive and march forward to
that liberty which is not only negative, which is not, only the absence of any
restraint, but to that liberty which is positive, which is the creation of
those conditions which would give the necesary opportunity to every man and
woman of this country to develop his or her full personality,free from any
want or fear. And I may also say this that the price of liberty is not
vigilance, but work and more work, and more production so that humanity may
march forward and achive its goal of happiness and freedom and democracy.

**Shri H.Siddaveerappa** (** **(Mysore State): Mr. President, it is with very great pleasure that I associate myself with the chorus of tributes paid to the Drafting Committee in general and to its Chairman in particular. Sir, for the last several days, the merits and demerits of this Constitution have been discussed so threadbare that it is not possible to cover any new points. Almost all the points have been covered.

One outstanding point that comes to my mind when I see this Constitution is
that from the first time that this Constituent Assembly met, it will be seen
that several changes have been introduced into it, much of which having been
influenced by what is called compulsion of events. It can be seen that right
from the beginning the very tenor of this Constitution is to have a strong
unified Centre, and it is well that, situated as we are we could not think of
any other form of Constitution, though, of course, in name it is a Federation.
It can also be seen that the powers have been so much centralized that this
Constitution is more in the nature of a unitary Constitution than a Federal
Constitution. The only question is whether the Centre has been made so strong,
that there is what is called over-centralization. Now in the opinion of some
the Centre is made so powerful and strong that very little incentive is left
for the component parts and I am also prone to believe in that opinion. The
Chairman of the Drafting Committee himself, when he made his introductory
speech on 4th November, 1948 with regard to the Centre being so strong, said:

"It cannot chew more than it can digest. Its strength must be commensurate
with its weight. It would be folly to make it so strong that it may fall by
its own weight".

In the opinion of some the Centre has taken almost all the powers and that the
Units are left with little or no incentive. That is with regard to the
character of this Constitution, whether it is Federal or Unitary.

Coming as I do from an Indian State, I cannot help making a special reference
to the nature of the Constituion with regard to the States. It can be seen
that in this country nearly one-third of its territory, with 27 per cent of
its population, was covered by 562 Indian States having a population of
80,880,434. These States had varying degrees of political progress and
economic advancement,d some comparing very favourably, if not better than some
of the advanced provinces in this country, and some being very backward. The
question of these Indian States was one of the baffling problems for this
infant independent country. Even during the time of the Britishers they took
several decades to consolidate the States and to bring them to a certain form.
With regard to the States the Butler Committee report stated:

"Politically there are two India's - British India governed by the Crown
according to the Statutes of parliament and enactments of the Indian
Legislature, and the Indian States under the suzeraintly of the Crown and
still for the most part under the personal rule of the Princes.
Geographically, India is one and indivisible made up of pink and yellow. The
problem of statesmanship is to hold the two together."

Even the Cabinet Mission's plan as announced on 15th May, 1946 envisages two
vital changes with regard to the States, namely, that after the attainment of
independence paramountcy would lapse and that the States would retain all
other other subjects except those covered by Defence, Communications and
Foreign Affairs.

It will be seen after the Britishers left this country, technically, of course
these 562 States were as free as any other part of India. It is under this
period of stress and strain in some quarters, though of course very few, that
some fissiparous tendencies raised their ugly heads and they claimed that they
were independent, though that tendency was nipped in the bud. It is in this
period that the States Ministry of the Government of India was formed on 5th
July, 1949, when Sardar Patel observed:

"The States have accepted the basic principle that for foreign affairs,
defence and communications, they would come into the Indian Union. We ask no
more than accession of those subjects in which the common interest of the
country is involved. In other words, we would scrupulously respect their
autonomous existence."

It is a very fascinating and interesting study because history is being
written before our eyes. It is not possible to perceive how within these two
years, not only all these three subjects, but in all vital matters, this whole
country from Cape Comorin to the Himalayas has been brought under one
administration and Government and certainly, Sir, the credit must go to that
great leader, Sardar Patel, who has brought about this change-a very bloodless
revolution. No one could have believed that such a change was possible within
an incredulously short period of two years: Not only that, in some advanced
States Constituent Assemblies had ben started and they were going on with
their work. In defence to the wishes of the States Ministry, those Constituent
Assemblies had to postpone their work just because it was thought desirable
that there should be one single Constitution for the whole of India, whether
they are provinces or whether they are Indian States. Under those
circumstances it was found possible to have a Constitution of the so-called
Indian States which are very few in number now, as one can see from Part B of
the First Schedule. There is a single constitution for the whole of this
country governding their relationship and it may not be far wrong if I say now
that this change would not have ben so easy, had it not been for the unstinted
support given to them by the Princes and the subjects of the Indian States. It
has been acknowledged in wholesome measure by Sardar Patel himself on
occassions more than once, that the patriotic feelings of the subjects and
Princes were also responsible for bringing about this bloodless revodlution
within so short a period of time.

It can be seen that in the case of some advanced States, due to financial
integration, they have been subject to some losses of revenue, particularly in
Mysore where due to financial integration they have lost a considerable
portion of their revenue. Still, the people have cheerfully borne all these
temporary inconveniences and in some cases permanent also, in the larger
interests of this country. When all this is said, I want to know what
justification is there for bringing about discrimination by way of article
371. Besides when the peoples of the States have made considerable sacrifices
and without any resistance they have fallen in line with the whole of India,
was there any necessity for an article like 391-just a kind of good-behaviour
clause, wherein there is general supervision and control for a period of ten
years with regard to all the States? Perhaps I am not able to find out the
reasons. There may be weighty reasons, but the feeling in the minds of several
people in the States is: What is it that we have done to be reduced to this
level? Is this the reward for the sacrifices made by the people of the States
for falling in line with the rest of the country? Anyhow so far as Mysore and
Travancore and Cochin are concerned, there is a promise that they will be
exempted, thought the people in those States would have been far happier if it
was statutorily recognised that there is no need for a provision like that.
Let me sincerely hope that this article 371 will remain a dead letter.

Lastly, I also join the chorus of tributes paid to you, Sir, for the very
worthy manner in which you have conducted the deliberations of this House.

**Shri Kamlapati Tiwari **( (United Provinces: General): *[Mr. President, Sir, during the Third Reading of the Constitution we have had a discussion for the last six days. The Constitution has been fully discussed and no aspect of it remains on which the honourable Members have not said something or the other. Its merits and demerits have been fully discussed. Everything has been said in regard to its merits and its specialities and I find that everything has been said in regard to its demerits and its shortcomings too. I admit that after a discussion of six days I can not say anything new in regard to its merits or demerits. Even then Sir, I have gathered courage to take some time of the House because this is an important and historic occasion and its very idea is inspiring to us. It has special significance for soldiers like us who took the pledge of serving the country and the nation twentyfive to thirty years back sitting at the feet of revered leaders like you who initiated us into that service. We shall possibly never have such an occasion again. Therefore I too could not resist the temptation of saying something on this occasion again. Therefore I too could not resist the temptation of saying something on this occasion. I am grateful to you for having given me an opportunity of saying a few words. Sir, many of us have had a dream picture of our nation and of the future of our country for the last thirty years. We nourished an idea in regard to our country and its future. Our dream and our idea was that a day would come when we would ourselves be able to shape our destiny without interference from any quarter whatsoever. This dream and this idea inspired us for the last thirty years and gave us strength to advance forward in our struggle for freedom according to our intelligence and our power. After a period of thirty years it appears that our dream is coming out to be true to some extent and our idea appears to be materialising. We saw our country achieving freedom and our idea of being able one day to shape our destiny without outside interference is going to materialise. We can think ourselves fotunate and blessed because the Constitution of our nation and of our free country is being moved for acceptance in our presence. So far as the relation of the merits and demerits of the Constitution is concerned, I would like humbly to submit, Sir, that I was not satisfied with the trend of the discussion which took place during its course. I saw that one honourable Member after another rose to eulogise the merits of the Constitution and to congratulate and praise each other. I could not understand this mutual praise and mutual congratulations. The Constitution is the result of the collective effort of all. It is not worthy of us to praise each other and to congratulate our own selves. We are Indians and we take pride in our culture. We can be worthy of our culture only if we abstain now by not praising our merits and by not taking pride in the good things that we might have done. After all what have we done so as to deserve this selfpraise and mutual congratulations. How has the necessity arisen of patting each other? The people of our country confided in us and returned us to this House with the hope and faith that we would chalk out such a line for shaping their lives and their future which would not only enhance their prestige but would also uplift them. When the country returned us and gave us the charge of shaping its destiny, it did hope that we would frame a constitution which would be noteworthy for its merits and specialities. You you have indeed framed a constitution which has many good features and specialities. Whom should we congratulate and what for? The country gave us the authority for shaping its destiny. If we have successfully fulfilled our responsibility and done our duty, we should not praise each other for it. We only discharged the responsibilities that we had taken upon ourselves. Instead of ourselves praising each other we should have left this task for the country. The nation will judge whether this Constitution has any merits and whether we deserve any praise for it. We shall have reason for self gratification only when the nation praises us. Therefore without taking recourse to self-praise like my other friends I straightaway want to put before the House a short analysis of the constitution itself. When I think of the most noteworthy feature of the Constitution and its greatest merit, three things present themselves before my mind. Those of my friends who have only eulogised the Constitution have only repeated these things. It has been said that the untouchability has been abolished by the Constitution. The third thing which is being taken pride of, is that separate electorates have been abolished and provision has been made for joint electorates in the Constitution. These are the three specialities of the Constitution which have been emphasised by the speakers and it is for these that they have been congratulating each other.

Sir Alladi too, who is a great scholar of jurisprudence, repeated in the
course of his speech this morning only these three features of the
Constitution. Sir, I humbly submit that these are not such specialities as my
justify our taking pride in them and feeling elated about them and taking
recourse to mutual congratulations. When the country returned you and sent you
here for framing the Constitution, if you had not included these broead
features in the Constitution, what else would you have included in it? The
principle of adult franchise is a well known principle and its usefulness has
already been demonstrated elsewhere. Therefore there is not much sense in
taking pride for having forwarded it. If this great democracy, which you are
going to establish, is not based on the rights of the people that is to say on
adult franchise, on what else will it be based? Adult franchise is gaining
ground everywhere in the world and it is now being recognised that the
structure of democracy can be raised on this basis alone. Besides, we have
always been declaring that we have to establish true democracy alone in India.
Have we not declared that we would establish peoples' democratic government in
India and have we not been returned on that basis? If we had not provided
adult franchise what else could we have provided for? We have not done such a
thing as may justify our self-praise. We accepted a well recognised principle
and have done but our elementary duty. Any person or any other party on being
returned to this House and on taking upon itself the task of bringing about a
democratic order, would have been compelled to provide for at least adult
franchise. It was after a successful revolt that we came here. We led that
revolt. Then, if we have provided for adult franchise, what novel thing have
we done? I would say that if in our place had been the sycophants and diehards
of the old order or even the capitalists engaged in the task of framing the
constitution, they too would have at least granted adudlt franchise. So much
for adult franchise.

I shall now take up the other speciality of the Constitution which has been
constantly referred to and for which we have resorted to self-praise and
mutual congratulations. It is the abolition of untouchability. We very proudly
say that through this Constitution we have totally effaced untouchability.
Sir, it is a surprise to me that we take pride on the abolition of
untouchability. Sir, it is a surprise to me that we take pride on the
abolition of untouchability. Sir, it is we consider it a great success. I want
to ask whether we have abilished untouchability only today? By declaring
untouchability as illegal in the Constitution have we done anything as can
bring great credit to us? Have we done any great and novel thing?
Untouchability was abolished long ago when Bapu raised his voice against it
and revolted against it thirty years back. When Bapu began to play a role in
our lives, he revolted against untouchability and said that it was a blot on
India and that it should be removed. That powerful and explicit voice ended
untouchability years ago. Today we say that we have abolished untouchability
through this Constitution. I ask had we not done what Bapu had asked us to do
and what had met general approval, how would we have kept face with our
people? Therefore it does not appear proper to me to say that we have done a
great and unique thing. I think that it is altogether unnecessary for us to
take pride in the abolition of untouchability, in the provision for adult
franchise and in a third thing which has also been characterised as great
achievement.

I think Sir, that we have nothing to be proud of in the abolition of separate
electorates either. Separate electorates were responsible for the ruin of the
country. Our history of the last one hundred and fifty years bears testimony
to the fact that no other problem has been so much responsible for ruining the
country as that of separate electorates. Separate electorates alone gave birth
to communalism. Separate electorates alone gave birth to two-nation theory.
Separate electorates alone gave birth to the idea of dividing the country
which ultimately culminated in the partition and mutilation of the country.
All this was brought about by separate electorates alone. Would we have
provided for separate electorates even now? We have not done anything great by
giving no place to that system in our Constitution and we need not praise it
for that. I think Sir, that it is futile to eulogise our achievements and the
merits of this Constitution and to take recourse to self-praise and mutual
congratulations. Instead of taking recourse to this practice we should rather
consider at this occasion what we have been able to do and what we have not
been able to do, so that the country may have a knowledge of what remains to
be done and at a suitable time we may be able to correct our mistakes. We
should acknowledge our mistakes and should apprise the future generations of
the shortcomings and defects of the Constitution which need rectification. We
should pay particular attention towards this. I think that a person or a
nation can progress only when it pays attention towards its shortcomings.
Gandhiji taught us to pay attention towards our shortcomings and weak points
and to turn our eyes away from our merits. He asked us to see our defects to
admit them and to make effort to remove them. He said that for the development
and welfare of a person or a nation it was necessary that an error should be
accepted without any hesitation and that to see an error one should look at
himself. Therefore to enable the country to make progress it is necessary to
see the defects of the Constitution so that they may be removed. It is also
necessary to see whether we have not left out such things as were greatly
needed by the country. Sir, I humbly submit that when I examine this
Constitution from this point of view I find that though we ourselves are
responsible for framing it, it does not satisfy us, nor does it fulfil our
necessities. It may be that I am saying things which I am not authorised to
say but at present everyone should give primary importance to the interests of
the country and should express his views accordingly. This sentiment alone has
given me courage to refer to these matters. I realise that the conditions
obtaining in the country have influenced us. We were influenced by fears and
doubts and these have been reflected in the Constitution. This fact may be
responsible for its shortcomings. But whatever may be responsible for them, we
have to see them and point them out. Our scriptures say:

'Shatrorapi guna vachya dosha vachya gurorapi'

'Speak of the merits of the enemy also and surely point out the defects that
may be in your teachers.' Therefore if we discuss this matter from this point
of view, it should not be understood that we are showing disrespect to any
teacher. No particular person or committee can be held responsible for the
shortcomings. We are all equally responsible for the shortcomings. Therefore
Sir, I want to draw your attention to some fundamental defects which have been
left over in this Constitution. Many petty mistakes too can be pointed out but
I would not refer to them. I have not the time to discuss in detail in my own
humble way all the clauses and sub-clauses to which I object. I shall only
point out the fundamental defects in the short time, that you have kindly
permitted me to speak. The first fundamental defect of the constitution
appears to be that it is terribly centre-ridden. It appears to me that the
polity we have provided for in the Constitution will necessitate the
centralisation of all power and authority. I consider this Type of
centralisation to be defective and dangerous. I think that centralisation will
necessarily give rise to tendencies which may prove to be dangerous. Moreover,
the leader whose foot-steps we have been fortunately following for the last
thirty years, gave us a viewpoint, an idea and an ideology. Our Bapu was all
light and he told us that centralisation, whether in political field or
economic field necessarily deprives the masses of their political and economic
independence. This was the new idea and new ideology that he handed over to
us. He said that true democracy rose not from the top but from the bottom.
Power and authority should not be centred at the top but should be distributed
among the people at the base of society. Then alone can true democracy be
established and then alone can people enjoy freedom. The order that we are
going to establish has its head downwards. A tree is being planted with its
roots above and its branches spreading downwards. There may be a spiritual
tree with its roots upwards and branches spreading downwards but in the
political field any other with its base upwards and its top downwards cannot
be instrumental in the establishment of true democracy. Centralisation is a
terrible curse of the present times. It was the centralisation of production
which gave birth to capitalism which in its turn put an end to economic
freedom in the world. In the political field the order that came into being on
the conclusion of the French Revolution disappeard with the establishment of
centralised forms of government and with the centralisation of power and
authority. If you look at the present day Russia you will see that although
Russia claims to have established the great democracy but actually it has not
been able to respect democracy. The reason behind it is that a terrible demon
is the form of centralised power dominates the people and crushes their
individuality and their freedom. You should remember that if you bring about
centralisation in India it would lead to the maintenance of rights from a
centre and necessarily that in its turn would involve that power be more and
more vested in the centre. Everyone knows that effective power in the hands of
the centre can only be based on military strength and the concentration of
military power is the sure road leading to the complete destruction of popular
rights. This is an historic truth. Our Constitution obviously presents this
danger. The circumstances may have compelled us to provide for a centralised
form of government but the danger is there and it is necessary to take notice
of it. It was with this realisation that Gandhiji had taught us to oppose
centalisation. He told us that for the establishment of true democracy the
means of production should be decentalised and its form too should be of a
decentralised nature. The society which is formed on such foundations should
also be of a decentralised nature and the Government of this society should
also be of a decentralised form. The rights should be in a gradation from
below upwards and the government should enjoy only those rights as are
bestowed upon it by the people. We have been told that this is a people's
constitution and a common man's constitution. I humbly submit that it appears
to me that this is in the least a common man's constitution. Power has been
centralised in it at the top although it may have well been said in it that
power is vested in the people. You should pay attention to it.

Moreover, I find that there is nothing Indian in the Constitution. It appears
that the Constitution has been framed only to meet the exigencies of the
times. We were influenced by the conditions obtaining int he country and were
obsessed by the fear that some people might spread anarchy and emergency may
arise at anytime and our freedom might be endangered. We were all along
influenced by this thought and we framed our Constitution accordingly. No
doubt we are confronted with this situation in the present transitional
period. When an old order crashed, when an established system collapses it
sends vibrations and quivers even into the earth. It is but natural that at
such a time of political earthquake fear and anxiety should grip the minds of
men. Before our eyes has collapsed a great and mighty empire. It is not
surprising. Sir, that there should be at such a time fear and anxiety in our
hearts, but I do deeply regret that there should have been reflected in the
provisions of our Constitution.

My other regret is, Sir, that we have drawn inspriation mainly from foreign
Constitutions alone. We have drawn upon the Constitution of Australia. We may
have even borrowed from the Constitution of Canada and we may have even
influenced by the unwritten Constitution of Great Britain. We have also been
discussing rather warmly whether the Constitution under consideration is
federal or unitary in character. But, Sir, we have not cared to cast even a
glance to the historic spirit and culture of India nor have we taken into
consideration the Indian approach to life. While passing this Constitution we
did not in the least pay attention to the political philosophy and situation
of this ancient country-the oldest among the nations of the world-and which
has occupied a prominent place on the stage of History. History is, Sir as
witness to the great and glorious experiments made by our country in the
sphere of politics. But, Sir, we turned a blind eye to all these facts of our
History. It does no credit to any one here to say that majority rule did not
exist in our country. History is a witness, Sir, to the fact that ours was the
first country in the world in which was established the system of majority
rule if not of pure Democracy. The entire north west region of our country the
land of the Panchabs-was studded with Republics in the historic epoch noted
for Alexander's invasion of our country. The state of Kapilvastu, where Lord
Budha was born, was also a republic. Again there was the great Republic with
which Lord Budha had very intimate contacts. The glory of these republics
continued for thousands of years in this country. Even in the Vedas,
Upinishads and the Brahmanas we find fully developed concepts of such politics
as the samrajve, virajye and Arayke, Rajiye. I, therefore, fail to see how any
one here can say that the concepts of republics, Majority rule and democracy
are entirely foreign to us. I submit, Sir, that there has been a whole body of
political traditions in this country. If you looked into the Mahabharat and
gave thought to what the great Vyas has put into the mouth of Bhishma in that
great epic you would find that there is contained a constitution polity
complete in itself and a political philosophy ripe in wisdom. But the question
I ask, Sir, is 'Have we cared to give even a passing thought to all wisdom?'
Principles and provisions of alien origin are to be found in this
Constitution. What is worse, Sir, I can safely assert notwithstanding the loud
protests of some friends here that the dark shadow of the Government of India
Act is to be found lying heavily on this Constitutin. No one can deny here
that the dark shadow of that Act which we had denounced so much, is to be
found in every page of this Constitution. We have committed Sir, a fundamental
error in keeping this Constitution quite unrelated to the historic culture,
traditions, the national genius, the national sentiments and self of our
country. I would urge you to remember that this cultural divorce between the
Constitution and the country has not only made entirely alien but also
lifeless in character.

This third basic shortcoming of this Constitution is the limitations and
restrictions it imposes on Fundamental Rights, credit is being taken, Sir, for
the provision with regard to the abolition of untouchability. The critics are
sought to be confounded by the naive question "Have we not guaranteed the
Fundamental Rights. Is it not also true that there are many clauses in this
Cosntitution which infringe and encroach upon the Fundamental Rights of the
citizens. How could we do all these unless we drew an inspiration from the
Government of India Act. It was the policy of the British Government to break
to the heart which they promised to the ear-and I believe we have followed in
their footsteps. I may concede that all that was probably necessary for the
security of that State. My Complaint, however, that while doing all this you
should not acknowledge it. Gandhiji had taught us that the security of the
State cannot be ensured by the arms and denial of rights of the people.
Bhishma had also advised Yudhishtra to remember that the people should be
fully protected and kept free from the danger of starvation and nakedness and
other types of sufferings and wants. The state that we should establish should
be like the same which while it takes the price of food also gives it back
eightfold for the benefit of the people of this earth. Such a state would not
need arms for its security, nor would it need an army to defend it. Bapu had
also taught us that any state which seeks to retain its existence by the use
of force alone would not be able to maintain itself for even its own arms
would turn against it. I repeat Sir, that if we would establish a state which
relies on force alone for its continued existence it would not be stable or
durable. Any state which rests on a denial of the basic rights of the people
can not last for long. If a State gathers power by depriving people of their
rights, it sooner or later finds that it has bargained for a frankenstein for
itself. As the proverb runs-Nothing corrupts like fouls-and this is but
natural to man. It is no doubt true that the reins of power are today in the
hands of leaders whose life has been passed in the service of the country.
None need entertain any fears about their acting improperly. But it may well
be that this power may fall into the hands of people who misuse it. That is
the danger.

The great defect of this Constitution is that it secures nothing to the poor
and have votes of this country. Even the little assurance contained in the
Directive Principles is not adequate. Even there it is said that the State
would do all this within the limits of its economic capacity. It does not in
the least guarantee that there would be no poverty in the country and we would
not have a single person begging on the streets. As there is no guarantee
against unemployment nor do I find a duty being laid on the State to provide
work to its citizens. No doubt we have guaranteed a salary of Rs.10,000 for
the President of India. We have also charged the salary of the Accountant-
General, and former services on the consolidated fund of India by means of
this bulky Cosntitution. But we have not made the least provision as regards
the pay to be given to the peons nor have we made, any provision with regard
to the minimum salary that can be given by the State to its employees. For
example why is it that we have not laid down that every employee in this
country would be paid a salary of not less than Rs.75. If we had done any such
thing we would have won the heart of the people of this country. But you have
paid attention only to the people at the top and not to them who are at the
bottom. It is for this reason that this Constitution appears to be quite
futile and lifeless. The fact is that it is not inspired by any substantial
ideas.

We accepted that there should be one official language for this country but at
the same time we have taken care to see that the language which is going to be
our national language may not become the official language at an early date.
Sir, my submission is that we paid attention to the question as to what would
happen to the seervices if Hindi became the official language in less fifteen
years but we remained blind to the consideration as to the integral relation
of language with the consciousness and sentiments of the people. Language is
the vehicle of our sentiment and beliefs. It is, therefore, the basic element
of culture-and culture as is well known, is the drawing power behind the
progress and rise of a country. Such a deep relation exists between culture
and language, that there can not be any foundation for any creative activity
in its absence. But we paid no heed to this fundamental truth and are still
fondly longing a foreign language to our bosom. What is the language that you
have employed for drawing up your Constitution? Whatever else may or may not
have been possessed by our country it is a fact that it never backed a well
developed language and script. History is a witness to the fact that all the
Asiatic countries designed their scripts on the basis of our script. The
literature of our country is so great that the entire world pays its respect
to it, what a shame it is that the Constitution of our Country is being drawn
and passed in a foreign language.

These are defects to which we should attend to. If felt that I owe a duty to
my country to my leaders, to this Constituent Assembly that I should place my
sentiments before you so that we may acknowledge that though our Constitution
may be desirable yet it is not free from blemishes.

Sir, I have briefly placed my sentiment before. But I would like it to be
understood that I have despair in my heart or I want to abate in any way the
work that has been accomplished so far. I have talked of our failings only in
order that we may be able to say to our people that our work, whether good or
full of defects, was before it. I felt that we should frankly accept that our
work may be full of defects and failings. We should make it clear that we are
aware of those defects. We must say that we know what are defects but we also
know the direction towards which we are moving and that when circumstances
would permit we would remove those defects and overcome these failings. Sir,
even though there are defects we should express our satisfaction at what we
have some fondness for this Constitution because we have ourselves framed it
in all good faith and moved by the love of the country. We are happy at what
we are today. I feel that in comparison to the day when thirty years ago we
started on our adventure on rocks and shoas to reach the temple of freedom,
the present day is very beatiful for us. We have been witnessing to the
humiliation of our great and ancient country lying under the hand of
foreigners. That was our epoch in the life of this country when humanity was
grasping for life, when our mother our country was lying despoiled, trampled
and outraged before our very eyes. That was the age when despair darkened our
hearts and we had lost all hopes for our future. Suddenly we perceived an
angel descending into our life. We felt the magic of his words and life and
hope came back singing back even to the ashes and bones of this country. His
fire and faith breathed into our dead souls a new life. We heard the thunder
of revolution in his sweet voice, and the call for battle and sacrifice in his
mild words. He gave us a new message and a new and novel technique of struggle
and revolution. His was a unique motto of war-the war of Dharma of Truth, of
humanity and light against the forces of untruth, injustice, animality and
darkness. There came the day when we saw that the mightiest empire crumbled
into dust and nothing under the blows of that man. We saw the miracle of
nature that went to step in one night awakening to find the sun of
independence and freedom already smiling in its life. All great man that we
have been able to frame this Constitution today. It is but natural that we
should have tender feelings for this product of our labours. A great event in
our history comes before my eyes today. Twenty five hundred years ago another
Constitution had been drawn up for our country. That was the age when
Chandragupta Maurya had thrown out the Greek conquerors from this country, re-
established its glory and self-respect, and established the empire which
remained a glory of country for generations. It was in that age that Kautilya
had drawn up a Constitution which has remained a brant product of the Indian
mind during all these centuries. It is after that long period of twenty-five
hundred years that we are engaged again in this task of Constitution making.
It may well be that this effort of ours may be full of faults, or may be it
has its merits. But we feel it a duty to dedicate it to the memory of the
Father of our Nation. We do so in the hope and faith that a day will come when
we shall have succeeded in establishing such a pattern of life as will be a
message of hope and cheer to the entire mankind.]

**Shri Dharanidhar basu Matari **(Assam: General): Mr. President, Sir, I feel I can not leave the Constituent Assembly to return to my province, Assam, without adding my own tribute to Dr. Ambedkar and the Drafting Committee for their great achievement in producing this Constitution. I think I am right in saying that everyone has some or the other criticism or grievance to air. The Constitution does not, and cannot satisfy every section from all points of view, but, taking everything from an All-India point of view, the Constitution is not disappointing and, in fact, the best that could have been framed under the difficult circumstances after Partition. It is not what has been put down in cold print in the Constitution, in the Articles, in the Schedules, that will matter. It will surely be the spirit in which the purpose of the Constitution is executed. If all sections co-operative honestly and unselfishly, I am certain India will progress along right lines.

Talking of progress, let me make it quite clear that no real progress is
possible if large parts of our nation are deliberately kept behind and
backward. The advanced communities will have to make special efforts,
particular sacrifices if the backward classes are to come up. I am not one who
believes that the backward classes can be brought to the general level in ten
years. That is impossible and it is unfortunate that ten years as a limit have
been incorporated in the Constitution. But, much can be done in the ten years
also, if undivided attention and adequate funds are earmarked for the
advancement of the backward classes.

Assam Tribals have much to be thankful for in the Constitution. One has to
admit that there is much scope for tribal development for the so-called
autonomous districts where there will be tribal councils and so forth. But I
am not happy about tribals in Assam who are in the plains and the tea gardens.
There are millions of them outside the autonomous districts. What will be
their fate? Do they not need any protective and special treatment? I am none
too happy about the tribals in the Assam plains. I know only too well how they
have been neglected and exploited in the past and, to my mind, they will
continue to be suppressed, unless there is special arrangement made for their
advancement. The truth is that tribals have to be helped against themselves.
As things are, they cannot complete with the other elements of the plains.

The tempo of advancement will have to be faster. Take the question of
appointments. It is no good saying that so many tribals have been recruited as
forest rangers. Tribals must be recruited to all branches of service, from the
lowest to the highest, not only in the provinces but also at the Centre. not
only should there be a minimum quota fixed for their appointments, but their
promotion must equally be seen to, so that they do not stick where they begin.
For this to happen, the advanced classes must make a sacrifice. They must
recede and tribals must come forward. When the advanced communities here say
they want the tribals must come to their standard, do they really mean that
they are willing to make way for the educated tribals? On the basis of
competition, there will be no improvement. The sections that have captured the
services will see to it that their superiority is never threatened or
endangered. Arguments about efficiency of administration are, to my mind, just
dodges to perpetuate class or territorial interests. During the British
regime, certain people were the favoured lot and they got the jobs, the
contacts and the privileges; there was a distinction between martial and non-
martial races. d In Free India, there is no room for such invidious
distinctions. I know the Constitution does not satisy peoploe who have been
used to preferential treatment. To such people democracy means something
different.

Sir, the overall picture is not without hope. I do believe the Constitution
can be worked in a democratic way, if the leaders respect the rights of others
more than theri own. Tribals will certainly do their best to contribute their
part in the working of the Cosntitution and I hope others will not stand in
their way.

All of us know, Sir, our Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi wanted to
establish a Ramrajya and to me, it appears that he wanted a world where there
can be no discrimination between the poor and the rich, the wretched and
happy, and we are proud to be his disciples.

**Shri Ari Bahadur Gurung** (**:**** **Mr. President, Sir, I associate myself with my colleagues in congratulating the Chairman and other members of the Drafting Committee for having brought this stupendous task to a successful conclusion. I have only a few observations to make. Firstly, the criticism of the Constitutin that it does not provide for the establishement of socialism is as irrelevant as the complaint that it is likely to open the way to dictatorship is futile. The real test of democracy is to give the right to people to decide for themselves the nature of the Government they would like to have. The question of dictatorship or totalitarian communism will depend entirely upon the manner in which the people will work the Constitutin. The Constitution will be subject to a continuous series of modifications according to the will of the people. Such provisions have been provided already in the Constitution. Sir, I personally feel that a Constitution is something of a sacred character which inspires future generations. It is the embodiment of the living faith and philosophy. Therefore we must not forget his gospel. To end with, Sir, I thank you for giving me an opportunity to express my humble views on the Constitution. Jai Hind.

**Shri Dip Narayan Sinha** (Bihar: General) : *[Mr. President, at this occasion when we are going to accept a Constitution for India, I most humbly want to pay my homage to the Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi, whose hard penance and extraordinary skill relieved us of our bondage. At the same time to payd my homage to those innumerable men and women who joined hands with us in our struggle for freedom, underwent many sufferings and made great sacrifices from time to time. The Constitution which we are going to accept is an unparalleled thing in the history of our country. Our national life will form itself on the basis of the provisions of this Constitution. Therefore I attach great sanctity and significance to this Constitution. I wish that every Indian should have the same feeling about it. I know that it has its shortcomings and there is much room for improvement. But it has its beauties too and any country can take pride in them. Now we should with all sincerity strive to work this Constitution and to put it to the greatest advantage for the country. If we sincerely strive to work this Constitution, we would be able to remove its shortcomings and whenever it would be necessary to make an improvement we would be able to do so easily. I now want to say a few words on this Constitution from a common man's point of view. When a common man from the countryside would turn over the pages of this Constitution he would not like to see the beauties of this Constitution or to go very deep into it. He would like to see whether things to meet his necessities have been provided in the Constitution or not. He would like to see whether this Constitution guarantees to him nutritious food, cloth, health and proper education. I would like to point out that the people of the villages and common men would be unable to find such a guarantee in this Constitution. No doubt it has been laid in the Constitution that during ten years such arrangements will be made for education as to enable all children reaching the age of fourteen to get educated. There is no provision for people of a higher age. Moreover, there is no guarantee for food, cloth and health in the Constitution. I know it and everyone knows it that India is a country of villages and our people live in villages. I can say that extensive countries of the world today have a preponderance of cities but my country is a country of villages. Our culture and civilization is one of villages and whatever remains of it has been saved by the grace of villages alone. Let alone giving a dominating position to the villages in the Constitution, they have been given no place whatsoever. No doubt I have seen that in a small article mention has been made of village panchayats. But it is nothing more than a reference. Our Constitution is silent about the shape that our villages will assume and the place they will occupy in future. The picture of the administratidon and of the society drawn in the Constitution has no place for the villages. I wanted that in administration and other maters the villages should have been given a preominant place dbut this has not been done in our Constitution. I consider it a great shortcoming. I think that this is due to the fact that much thought was not given to it. But no doubt it is a basic shortcoming. If we want that our country should make great progress, happiness and peace should soon reign supreme in this land, we will have to give a predominant place to the vidllages in all matters. We will have to frame all the administrative and other schemes on the basis of the village. d If we do not do so we will only add new chapters to our painful history of the past. I want that w should pay attention to this short-coming in working our Constitution and should formulate all nation-building schemes on the basis of the village.

There is one thing more which looks very improper to me. When the struggle for
Swaraj was launched, we were told that we could achieve freedom only with the
weapon of non-violence and truth. Marching forward on the path of truth and
non-violence we triumphed and attracted the attention of the whole world
towards us. Now when our Prime Minister or our representatives go to foreign
countries they are shown the highest respect. I accept that the persons who go
abroad have such capacities as to command the respect of others. But I think
that the chief reason for this respect is that we have broken as under the
shackles of slavery with non-violence and have achieved Swaraj and with non-
violence alone have banished the greatest foreign power from our country.
However, that non-violence finds no mention in this Constitution. It would
have been only proper if the whole constitution had been based on non-
violence. Then alone could we have acted with success in future in accordance
with our sentiments and thoughts. When we were engaged in the struggle for
freedom and had to very often change our front, we were reminded of the
unfailing strength of non-violence. Every resolution, every scheme and every
election manifesto had the stamp of non-violence on it. But this voluminous
book which will shape the future of our country, makes no mention of truth and
non-violence. It would have been proper to give a full chapter to non-violence
so that the future generations and those on whom the burden of working this
Constitution would fall, could have illumined their path with it and gone
ahead to build their nation. However, the Constitution has now been framed and
will be accepted in two or three days' time. I now appeal to our leaders and
to the nation that although the Constitution makes no mention of non-violence
but in bringing it into force non-violence must be the basis. If we forsake
non-violence we would not only harm ourselves but would hurt the other people
of the world also who are looking up to us with the hope that after some time
we would be able to establish peace in this violence-torn world. Therefore, I
request once more the leaders and the people of this country not to be
unmindful of Truth and Non-Violence in working the Constitution.]

**Mr. President**: We shall adjourn till 10 0' clock tomorrow.

The Assembly then adjourned till Ten of the Clock on Thursday the 24th
November, 1949.

\-----------------------------------------------------

        * [Translation of Hindustani speech.]  
  
---  
  


