|  |

|

**Constituent Assembly Debates (Proceedings) -****  ****VOLUME X**

* * *

** **

**Thursday, the 6th October 1949****  
****___________________**

     The Constituent Assembly of India met in the Constitution Hall, New Delhi, at Eleven of the Clock, Mr. President (The Honourable Dr. Rajendra Prasad) in the Chair.

_______________

** ADJOURNMENT OF THE HOUSE **

     **Mr. President** ** :** Honourable Members are aware that they have been discussing a very important question in their other capacity in the adjoining room and it has been suggested to me that we might adjourn today to enable the discussion of that question to be completed by this evening. I have said that personally I would have no objection if the Members of the House have no objection. I would therefore like to know if honourable Members have any objection to this.

     **Honourable**** Members :** We have no objection.

    ** Mr. President : **Then we shall adjourn. The next question is, at what time do we meet

_________________

**MEETING TIME FOR THE HOUSE **

     **Some Honourable Members :At** 10 o'clock.

     **Other Honourable Members :At** 9 o'clock.

     **Seth Govind Das **(C.P. &amp; Berar : General) :** **Let us meet from Nine to one.

     **Mr. President : **I do not see which opinion is stronger, but I can see that opinion is divided.

     **Shri**** M. Thirumala Rao** (Madras : General) : Without consulting the House this meeting was summoned at 11 o'clock today. Let it stand for tomorrow also.

     **Mr. President** **:** In the Rules it is provided that normally the Assembly will begin at 11 o'clock. I have summoned it at 11 o'clock in accordance with the rules.

     **Shri**** M. Thiramala Rao : **Then why consult the House now ?

     **Mr. President :** I am consulting it about the adjournment. We adjourn now. From tomorrow it is open to fix any time. But I shall be glad to consult the convenience of Members.

     **Shri**** R. K. Sidhva** (C. P. &amp; Berar : General) : Let us have it from 9-30 to 1-30. 

     **Mr. President :** That is a compromise between 9 and 10.

     **Shri**** Rohini Kumar Chaudhuri** (Assam : General): Let it be from 9 to 12-30 or 1 P.M. because at 1-30 one feels terribly hungry.

     **Pandit**** Hirday Nath Kunzru** ** **(United Provinces : General) : I suggest you should have it from 10 to 1 or from 9 to 1, if you want to have four hours, but not from 9-30 to 1- 30.

     **Shri**** Alladi Krishnnswami Ayyar** ** **(Madras : General): 10 o'clock would be all right. I suggest 10 o'clock as a compromise, and for this reason. We from Madras are generally accustomed to take our meals by 10 o'clock; we do not take lunch and all that kind of thing. Therefore it will be much better to have it at 10 o'clock-because 11 will be too late.

     **The Honourable Dr. B. R. Ambedkar** (Bombay : General) : I think, Sir. that 10 to 1 will be all right.

     **Mr. President : **It all depends upon the quantity of work we have to get through.

    ** Shri K. M. Munshi **(Bombay : General) : Sometimes we may have to meet twice a day.

    **Mr. President :** I do not object to that. We will adjust the timings according to the quantity of work we have to get through.

    ** Shri Biswanath Das **(Orissa : General) : 9 to 1 is not acceptable to us. I would suggest 3 to 7 p.m.

     **Shri**** R.K. Sidhva :** We must have two sessions later on. 

     **Several Honourable Members :** Let it be from 9 to 1.

     **Mr. President** **:** I would suggest one thing, if the Members do not mind. I would suggest that to begin with we start at 10 o'clock tomorrow and then we see what progress we are making. If we find that we are able to complete the work with three hours every day then we can continue from10 to 1. If on the other hand we find that the progress is not satisfactory then we shall think of changing the timings. If this finds approval we shall begin at 10 o'clock tomorrow.

     **Several Honourable Members : **That is agreeable.

     **Mr. President :** The House stands adjourned till 10 of the Clock tomorrow.

     The Assembly adjourned till Ten of the Clock on Friday, the 7th October, 1949.

__________________

  
  
---  
  


